





ISO 9735-1




Release 2
1996-07-05













Electronic data interchange for administration, commerce and 
transport (EDIFACT) - Application level syntax rules

Part 1:
Syntax rules common to all parts, together with syntax 
service directories for each of the parts


















Contents

		   						      Page

Foreword								4

Introduction			 					5

1	Scope								7

2	Conformance		 					7

3	Normative references						7

4	Definitions		 					8

5	Service characters						8

6	Character repertoires		 				9

7	Syntax structures						9

8	Inclusion and exclusion						11

9	Suppression of characters within data elements			14

10	Representation of numeric data element values			15

11	Dependency notes						16

Annex A:	Definitions						18

Annex B:	object service string advice				23

Annex C:	Syntax service directories (segments, composite data
		elements and simple data elements)			24

Annex D:	Syntax service code directory				63

Annex E:	Order of segments and groups of segments within a
		message							93














Foreword

(To be amended as necessary, according to ISO procedures)

ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a 
worldwide federation of national standards bodies (ISO member 
bodies).  The work of preparing International Standards is 
normally carried out through ISO technical committees.  Each 
member body interested in a subject for which a technical 
committee has been established has the right to be represented on 
that committee.  International organizations, governmental and 
non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work.  
ISO collaborates closely with the International Electrotechnical 
Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical 
standardization.

Draft International Standards adopted by the technical committees 
are circulated to the member bodies for approval before their 
acceptance as International Standards by the ISO Council.  They 
are approved in accordance with ISO procedures requiring at least 
75% approval by the member bodies voting.

International Standard ISO 9735 Release 2 was prepared by the 
UN/ECE Trade Division (as UN/EDIFACT) and was adopted, under the 
"fast-track procedure" as an existing standard, by Technical 
Committee ISO TC 154, Documents and data elements in 
administration; commerce and industry.

ISO/IEC 9735 consists (currently) of the following parts, under 
the general title Electronic data interchange for administration, 
commerce and transport (EDIFACT) - Application level syntax rules:

	ISO 9735-1	-	Syntax rules common to all parts, together with 
				syntax service directories for each of the parts

	ISO 9735-2	-	Syntax rules specific to batch EDI

	ISO 9735-3	-	Syntax rules specific to interactive EDI

	ISO 9735-4	-	Syntax and service report message for batch EDI 
				(message type - CONTRL)

	ISO 9735-5	-	Security rules for batch EDI (authenticity, 
				integrity and non-repudiation of origin)

	ISO 9735-6	-	Secure authentication and acknowledgement message 
				(message type - AUTACK)

	ISO 9735-7	-	Security rules for batch EDI (confidentiality)

	ISO 9735-8	-	Associated data in EDI

	ISO 9735-9	-	Security key and certificate management message 
				(message type - KEYMAN)


Further parts may be added in the future.
In this Part, annexes A, B and C form an integral part of this 
International Standard.
Annexes D and E are for information only.



Introduction

This International Standard includes the rules at 
the application level for the structuring of data 
in the interchange of electronic messages in an 
open environment, based on the requirements of 
either batch or interactive processing.  These 
rules have been agreed by the United Nations 
Economic Commission for Europe (UN/ECE) as syntax 
rules for Electronic Data Interchange for 
Administration, Commerce and Transport (EDIFACT) 
and are part of the United Nations Trade Data 
Interchange Directory (UNTDID) which also includes 
both batch and interactive Message Design 
Guidelines.

These syntax rules may be used in any application, 
but messages using these rules may only be referred 
to as EDIFACT messages if they comply with other 
guidelines, rules and directories in the UNTDID.  
For UN/EDIFACT, messages shall comply with the 
message design rules for batch or interactive usage 
as applicable.  These rules are maintained in the 
UNTDID.

Communications specifications and protocols are 
outside the scope of this standard.

Previous versions of ISO 9735 were specified as a 
single part.  This version of ISO 9735 consists of 
multiple parts and incorporates enhancements to 
extend the application of this International 
Standard.

This part of ISO 9735 is a re-draft of 
corresponding sections in the previous version of 
ISO 9735.  It consists of the rules common to all 
parts of ISO 9735, and includes the definitions and 
service directories for all parts.

The basic syntax rules specified in this part 
remain unchanged from the previous version, with 
the exception that the coverage of character 
repertoires has been extended, and two new 
techniques have been introduced (the provision for 
'dependency notes' and the introduction of a 
service repetition character, to support the 
capability of permitting multiple occurrences 
(repeats) of stand-alone and/or composite data 
elements).  Both of these techniques are used in 
other parts of this version of ISO 9735, and are 
available for specification in EDIFACT messages 
which utilise this International Standard.

In addition, enhancements have been made to the 
batch interchange; group; and message header 
segments (UNB; UNG; and UNH).


Character repertoires:  Because of the widening use 
of ISO 9735, it has become necessary to extend its 
coverage to include all character repertoires 
covered by ISO 8859 Parts 1-9; the code extension 
techniques covered by ISO 2022 (with certain 
restrictions on its use within an interchange); and 
partial use of the techniques covered by ISO 10646-1.

Dependency notes:  These provide a formal notation 
to express relationships in EDIFACT message, 
segment and composite data element specifications.

Repeating data elements: The specification of 
multiple occurrences of a message within a group or 
within an interchange; a group within an 
interchange; and a segment group and/or a segment 
within a message, which existed in the previous 
version of ISO 9735, has been extended in this 
version.  The additional capability for the 
specification of multiple occurrences of a stand-
alone data element and/or of a composite data 
element within a segment has been introduced.

UNB - Interchange header segment:  This segment has 
been enhanced to permit the identification of the 
service code list directory version number; 
identification of the character encoding scheme; 
and internal sub-identification of the sender and recipient.

UNG - Group header segment:  This segment has been 
re-named and its function changed to permit one or 
more message types and/or packages to be contained 
in the group.  As a result, certain data elements 
which are now redundant, have been marked for 
deletion.

UNH - Message header segment:  This segment has 
been enhanced to permit the identification of a 
message subset; of a related message implementation 
guideline; and of a related scenario.

Electronic data interchange for administration, commerce and
transport (EDIFACT) - Application level syntax rules

Part 1:
Syntax rules common to all parts, together with syntax service 
directories for each of the parts


1	Scope

This part of ISO 9735 specifies common syntax rules for the 
formatting of batch and interactive messages to be interchanged 
between computer application systems.  It includes the definitions 
and service directories for all parts comprising ISO 9735.


2	Conformance

Conformance to a standard means that all of its requirements, 
including all options, are supported.  If all options are not 
supported, any claim of conformance shall include a statement 
which identifies those options to which conformance is claimed.

Data that is interchanged is in conformance if the structure and 
representation of the data conforms to the syntax rules specified 
in this International Standard.

Devices supporting this International Standard are in conformance 
when they are capable of creating and/or interpreting the data 
structured and represented in conformance with the standard.

Conformance shall be based on Part 1, and at least either Part 2 
or Part 3 of this International Standard.

When identified in this International Standard, provisions defined 
in related standards shall form part of the conformance criteria.


3	Normative references

The following standards contain provisions which, through 
reference in this text, constitute provisions of this 
International Standard.  All standards are subject to revision, 
and parties to agreements based on this International Standard are 
encouraged to investigate the possibility of applying the most 
recent editions of the standards listed below.  Members of IEC and 
ISO maintain registers of currently valid International Standards.

ISO 639		Codes for the representation of names of 
		languages

ISO 646		Information processing - ISO 7-bit coded 
		character set for information interchange

ISO 2022	Information technology - ISO 7-bit and 8-bit 
		coded character sets - code extension 
		techniques

ISO 2382-1	Data processing - Vocabulary; Part 1: 
		Fundamental terms

ISO 2382-4	Data processing - Vocabulary; Part 4: 
		Organisation of data

ISO 6093	Information processing - Representation of 
		numerical values in character strings for 
		information interchange

ISO 6429	Information processing - Control functions for 
		7-bit and 8-bit coded character sets

ISO 6523	Information technology - Structure for the 
		identification of organizations and 
		organization parts

ISO 8601	Data elements and interchange formats - 
		Information interchange - Representation of 
		dates and times in information interchange

ISO 10646-1	Information technology - Universal 
		Multiple-Octet Coded Character Set (UCS); Part 

1: Architecture and basic multilingual plane


4	Definitions

For the purpose of this International Standard, the definitions in 
annex A apply.


5	Service characters

The service characters are the component data element separator, 
data element separator, release character, repetition separator, 
and segment terminator.

The component data element separator, data element separator, 
repetition separator, and segment terminator delineate various 
syntax structures as defined in clause 7.

The purpose of the release character is to allow the use of a 
character that would otherwise be interpreted as a service 
character.  The character immediately following the release 
character in a interchange shall not be interpreted as a service 
character.

When used, the release character is not counted in the length of 
the data element value.

NOTE - Using default service characters shown below, 10?+10=20 
appearing in a data transfer shall be interpreted on receipt as 
10+10=20.  A question mark in a data element value is represented 
in transfer as ??.

5.1	Default service characters

The default service characters reserved for use in this 
International Standard are:


Name			Graphic
		    Representation		Functionality

Colon			:			component data element separator

Plus sign		+			data element separator

Question mark		?			release character

Asterisk		*			repetition separator

Apostrophe		'			segment terminator


5.2	UNA, service string advice

The conditional service string advice (UNA) provides the 
capability to specify the service characters used in the 
interchange (see annex B).  The UNA service string advice shall be 
used if the service characters differ from the defaults (see 
clause 5.1).  Its use is optional if the default characters are 
used.

When used, the service string advice shall appear immediately 
before the interchange header segment, and applies only to that 
interchange.

6	Character repertoires

The character encoding specified in basic code table of ISO 646 
(7-bit coded character set for information interchange) shall be 
used for the interchange service string advice (if used) and up to 
and including the composite data element for the syntax identifier 
in the interchange header.

The character repertoire used (and the language covered) for the 
characters in an interchange shall be identified from the code 
value of the data element for the syntax identifier in the 
interchange header.

The default encoding technique for a particular repertoire shall 
be the encoding technique defined by its associated character set 
specification.

If the default option is not used, a code value for the data 
element 'Character encoding' in the interchange header shall be 
used.

Code extension technique (ISO 2022) may only be used in an 
interchange after the composite data element for the syntax 
identifier in the interchange header.

The code extension technique and its target graphic characters 
shall only be used for:

	-	plain language (textual) data elements, with a representation 
		of alphabetic or alphanumeric.

The technique shall not be used, for example, for any:

	-	segment tag, or
	-	service character, or
	-	data element with a representation of numeric.

Characters used to indicate code extension shall not be counted in 
the length of a data element, and shall not be used as service 
characters.

In calculating data element length, one graphic character shall be 
counted as one character, irrespective of the number of 
bytes/octets required to encode it.


7	Syntax structures

The definitions in this clause specify logical syntax structures.  
Rules to be applied for their usage are defined in clause 8.

7.1	Interchange structure

An interchange shall be started either by a service string advice 
or by an interchange header, shall be identified by an interchange 
header, shall be terminated by an interchange trailer, and shall 
contain at least one group, or one message or one package.  There may be 
more than one group or message and/or package within an interchange, each 
identified by its own header and terminated by its own trailer.

An interchange shall contain only:
• Messages, or
• Packages, or
• Messages and Packages, or
• Groups containing messages, or 
• Groups containing packages, or
• Groups containing messages and packages.

7.2	Group structure

A group is a conditional structure which is located between the 
interchange header and trailer and which comprises one or more 
messages and/or packages.

A group shall be started and identified by a group header, shall 
be terminated by a group trailer, and shall contain at least one 
message or package.

7.3	Message structure

A message comprises an ordered set of segments (see annex E).  
Segments may be grouped.  Each segment's position, status, and 
maximum number of occurrences shall be stated in the message 
specification.

A given segment within a message specification shall have a status 
of mandatory or conditional.

A message specification shall ensure unambiguous identification of 
each message segment upon receipt.  Identification shall be 
possible on the basis of the segment tag and the segment’s 
position in the transferred message.  Identification shall not 
depend on a segment’s status or maximum number of occurrences.

A message shall be started and identified by a message header, 
shall be terminated by a message trailer, and shall contain at 
least one additional segment.

7.4	Segment group structure

A segment group comprises an ordered set of segments:  a trigger 
segment and at least one more segment or segment group.  The 
trigger segment shall be the first segment in the segment group, 
shall have a status of mandatory and a maximum number of 
occurrences of one.  Each segment group's position, status, and 
maximum number of occurrences within the message structure shall 
be stated in the message specification.

A segment group may contain one or more dependent segment groups.  
When a segment group is contained within and directly subordinate 
to another segment group, the subordinate segment group is 
referred to as the child, and the other segment group is referred 
to as the parent.

A given segment group within a message specification shall have a 
status of mandatory or conditional.

7.5	Segment structure

A segment comprises an ordered set of stand-alone data elements 
and/or composite data elements, each of which are permitted to 
repeat, if so stated in the segment specification.  Each stand-
alone or composite data element's position, status and maximum 
number of occurrences within the segment structure shall be stated 
in the segment specification.  A segment shall be started and 
identified by a segment tag which references a specific segment 
specification.  A segment shall contain at least one data element 
in addition to the segment tag.

A given data element within a segment specification shall have a 
status of mandatory or conditional.

7.6	Segment tag structure

A segment tag is a simple data element.

Segment tags starting with the letter "U" (e.g. UNB, UCS) shall be 
reserved for service segments.

7.7	Composite data element structure

A composite data element comprises an ordered set of two or more 
component data elements.  Each component data element's position 
and status within the composite data element structure shall be 
stated in the composite data element specification.
A given component data element within a composite data element 
specification shall have a status of mandatory or conditional.

7.8	Simple data element structure

A simple data element contains a single data element value.

A simple data element is used either as a stand-alone data element 
or as a component data element.  A stand-alone data element occurs 
in a segment outside a composite data element.  A component data 
element occurs within a composite data element.

Each simple data element's data value representation shall be 
stated in the data element specification.

7.9	Package structure

A package shall be started and identified by an object header, 
shall be terminated by an object trailer, and shall contain one 
object.


8	Inclusion and exclusion

The rules in this clause shall be applied when a message is 
prepared for transfer.  Under these rules, certain segment groups, 
segments, data elements, and characters within a data element 
value, shall be present while others may be omitted.

8.1	Determination of presence 

A simple data element is considered present if its data element 
value contains at least one character.  

A composite data element is considered present if at least one of 
its component data elements is present.

A segment is considered present if its segment tag is present.

A segment group is considered present if its trigger segment is 
present.

8.2	Inclusion of segment groups

A mandatory segment group which is not contained within another 
segment group shall be present.

A mandatory child segment group shall be present if its parent 
segment group is present.

A single occurrence of a segment group having a status of 
mandatory is sufficient to satisfy the mandatory requirement.

8.3	Exclusion of segment groups

If a segment group is omitted, all of its segments and any 
dependent segment groups contained within it, regardless of their 
status, shall also be omitted.

8.4	Inclusion of segments

Segments shall appear in the order stated in the message 
specification.

A segment shall be terminated by a segment terminator.

A mandatory segment which is not in a segment group shall be 
present.

A mandatory segment contained in a segment group shall be present 
if the segment group is present.

A single occurrence of a segment having a status of mandatory is 
sufficient to satisfy the mandatory requirement.

Using a fictitious segment tag of ABC as an example, a mandatory 
segment defined as containing only conditional data elements for 
which no data is present at the time of transfer, shall be 
transferred in the form ABC'.

8.5	Exclusion of segments

A conditional segment for which only the segment tag is present 
shall be omitted in its entirety.

8.6	Inclusion of data elements

Data elements shall appear in the order stated in the segment 
specification.

Adjacent non-repeating data elements in the same segment shall be 
separated by a data element separator.

Adjacent occurrences of the same repeating data element in a 
segment shall be separated by a repetition separator.

Adjacent component data elements in the same composite data 
element shall be separated by a component data element separator.

A mandatory stand-alone data element in a segment shall be present 
if the segment is present.

A mandatory composite data element in a segment shall be present 
if the segment is present.

A mandatory component data element in a composite data element 
shall be present if the composite data element is present.

A single occurrence of a repeating data element having a status of 
mandatory is sufficient to satisfy the mandatory requirement.

8.7	Exclusion of data elements

In the figures in the following sub-clauses, "Tag" represents a 
segment tag, "DE" represents a composite data element or stand-
alone data element, and "CE" represents a component data element.  
The default service characters are used.

8.7.1	Exclusion of non-repeating composite data elements and 
stand-alone data elements

If a non-repeating composite data element or stand-alone data 
element is omitted and is followed by a another composite data 
element or stand-alone data element in the same segment, its 
position shall be indicated by retention of the data element 
separator which would normally follow it.

Tag+DE+DE+++DE+DE+DE'

Two data elements have been omitted.

	Figure 1 - Exclusion of non-repeating data elements within a segment


If one or more non-repeating composite data elements or stand-
alone data elements at the end of a segment are omitted, the data 
element separators which would normally follow them shall also be 
omitted.


Tag+DE+DE+++DE'


Using the example structure in figure 1, the last two data 
elements have been omitted.


	Figure 2 - Exclusion of non-repeating data elements at the end of a segment

8.7.2	Exclusion of component data elements

If a component data element is omitted and is followed by another 
component data element in the same composite data element, its 
position shall be indicated by retention of the component data 
element separator which would normally follow it.

Tag+DE+:CE:CE+CE:::CE'

Two component data elements have been omitted.


One component data element has been omitted.


	Figure 3 - Exclusion of component data elements within a composite data element


If one or more component data elements at the end of a composite 
data element are omitted, the component data element separators 
which would normally follow them shall also be omitted.


Tag+DE+:CE+CE'


Using the example structure in figure 3, the last component data 
element in the first composite data element and the last component 
data element in the last composite data element have been omitted.


	Figure 4 - Exclusion of component data elements at the end of 
	a composite data element



8.7.3	Exclusion of occurrences of repeating data elements

The position of an occurrence of a repeating data element may be 
significant, for example, to transfer array data.

In such a case, if an occurrence of a repeating data element is 
omitted and is followed by another occurrence of the same 
repeating data element, its position shall be indicated by 
retention of the repetition separator which would normally follow it.



Tag+DE+DE*DE***DE+DE*DE'


Two occurrences of a repeating data element have been omitted.


	Figure 5 - Exclusion of occurrences within a repeating data element


If one or more occurrences of a repeating data element at the end 
of a repeating data element are omitted, the repetition separators 
which would normally follow them shall also be omitted.



Tag+DE+DE*DE+DE'


Using the example structure in figure 5, the last occurrence in the first 
repeating data element, and the last occurrence in the last repeating data 
element have been omitted.


	Figure 6 - Exclusion of occurrences at the end of a repeating data element


9	Suppression of characters within data elements

In variable length data elements, insignificant characters shall 
be suppressed (i.e. omitted from the transfer), while significant 
characters shall be present. 

9.1	Insignificant characters

In variable length numeric data elements, leading zeroes shall be 
suppressed.  Nevertheless, a single zero before a decimal mark is 
allowed.  In variable length alphabetic and alphanumeric data 
elements, trailing spaces shall be suppressed.

9.2	Significant zeroes

Significant zeroes shall not be suppressed.  A single zero may be 
significant, for example, to indicate a temperature or tax rate.  
Trailing zeroes following the decimal mark may be significant to 
indicate precision.

9.3	Significant spaces

Significant spaces shall not be suppressed.  Leading and embedded 
spaces may be significant.
A data element value containing only space(s) shall not be 
allowed.

10	Representation of numeric data element values

For the purposes of this standard, the representation of numeric 
data element values shall be any of the representations as 
specified by ISO 6093 (which excludes the use of triad 
separators), with the following exceptions:

	-	The encoding specified in ISO 646 shall not be required.

	-	For variable length numeric fields, the rules for suppression apply (see clause 9).

	-	The space character and plus sign shall not be allowed.

	-	The full stop and the comma are allowed to represent the decimal mark.  Either 
		or both may be used within the same interchange.

	-	The length of a numeric data element value shall not include the minus sign (-), 
		the decimal mark (. or ,), or the exponent mark (E or e).

	-	When a decimal mark is transferred, there shall be at least one digit after the 
		decimal mark.

Examples using decimal marks:

	Allowed (full stop):		2 and 2.00 and 0.5 and .5
	Not allowed (full stop):	1. and 0. and .

	Allowed (comma):		2 and 2,00 and 0,5 and ,5
	Not allowed (comma):		1, and 0, and ,


11	Dependency notes

11.1	General

If required, dependency notes shall be used in the message or 
segment specification to express relationships. 

In a dependency note, a list is defined as two or more entities 
(where an entity can be a segment group; a segment; a composite 
data element; or a component data element).  Any entity may be 
subject to more than one dependency note."

Any entity may be subject to more than one dependency note.

11.2	Dependency notes in the message specification

Dependency notes in the message specification are used to describe 
the relationship between segments, between segment groups, or 
between segments and segment groups.  These entities shall be at 
the same hierarchical level and within the same parent structure.

Message level dependency notes shall be specified in the message 
segment table.

11.3	Dependency notes in the segment specification

Dependency notes in the segment specification are used to describe 
the relationship between stand-alone data elements, between stand-
alone data elements and composite data elements, or between 
composite data elements.  These entities shall be in the same 
segment. 

Dependency notes shall not be used to describe a relationship 
between stand-alone data elements and component data elements, or 
to describe a relationship between composite data elements and 
component data elements.  

11.4	Dependency notes in the composite data element specification

Dependency notes in the composite data element specification are 
used to describe the relationship between component data elements.  
These entities shall be in the same composite data element.

11.5	Notation for dependency notes

The notation for dependency notes comprise a dependency identifier 
followed by a list, in parenthesis, of position identifiers 
separated by commas e.g. D3(030, 060, 090).  The position 
identifier identifies an entity by its position number in its 
parent entity.  The dependency identifier identifies the type of 
dependency between the entities in the list.

A list shall contain at least two position identifiers.  The order 
of position identifiers in a list may be different from that 
implied by their value.

Dependency identifiers are described below.

	D1	ONE AND ONLY ONE
		One and only one of the entities in the list shall be 
		present.

	D2	ALL OR NONE
		If one entity in the list is present, the rest shall be 
		present.

	D3	ONE OR MORE
		At least one of the entities in the list shall be 
		present.

	D4	ONE OR NONE
		No more than one entity in the list shall be present.

	D5	IF FIRST, THEN ALL
		If the first entity in the list is present, then all of 
		the others shall be present.  It is permissible that one 
		or more of the entities not specified as the first 
		entity in the list may be present, without requiring the 
		first entity to be present.

	D6	IF FIRST, THEN AT LEAST ONE MORE
		If the first entity in the list is present, then at 
		least one more shall be present.  It is permissible that 
		one or more of the entities not specified as the first 
		entity in the list may be present, without requiring the 
		first entity to be present.

	D7	IF FIRST, THEN NONE OF THE OTHERS
		If the first entity in the list is present, then none of 
		the others shall be present. 


				  Annex A
				(normative)

Definitions


NOTES:

1. When a word or phrase appears in italics within a definition, 
this means that a definition exists in this annex for this word or 
phrase.

2. The terms are classified alphabetically; an identifier is added 
at the end of each definition, in square brackets, to facilitate 
the comparison between different linguistic versions.  For example 
the English term "Alphabetic character set" is called in French 
"Jeu de caracteres alphabetique", and will not appear at the same 
alphabetic place in the two versions of the syntax; the identifier 
in brackets shall nevertheless remain "[ 1 ]".

3. Where ISO standards are referenced, the definitions have been 
taken from the referenced standard. 


A.1	alphabetic character set: A character set that contains 
letters and/or ideograms, and may contain other graphic 
characters except digits.  [ 1 ]

A.2	alphanumeric character set: A character set that contains 
letters, digits and/or ideograms, and may contain other 
graphic characters.  [ 2 ]

A.3	attribute: A characteristic of an entity.  [ 3 ]

A.4 	batch EDI: electronic data interchange in which no strong 
requirements exist for formalised telecommunication 
association between the parties using query and response.  [ 4 

A.5	business: A series of processes, each having a clearly 
understood purpose, involving more than one organisation, 
realised through the exchange of information and directed 
towards some mutually agreed upon goal, extending over a 
period of time.  [ 5 ]

A.6	character: A member of a set of elements used for the 
organisation, control, or representation of data. (ISO 10646-1)  [ 6 ]

A.7	character repertoire: The set of graphic characters of a coded 
character set, considered independently of its encoding.  [ 7 ]

A.8	code extension: The techniques for the encoding of characters 
that are not included in the character repertoire of a given 
coded character set.  [ 8 ]

A.9	code list: The complete set of data element values of a coded 
simple data element.  [ 9 ]

A.10	code list directory: A listing of identified and specified 
code lists.  [ 10 ]

A.11	coded character set: A set of unambiguous rules that 
establishes a character set and the one-to-one relationship 
between the characters of the set and their bit combinations. 
(ISO 6429)  [ 11 ]

A.12	component data element: A simple data element used within a 
composite data element.  [ 12 ]

A.13	component data element separator: A service character used to 
separate the component data elements within a composite data 
element.  [ 13 ]

A.14	composite data element: An identified, named and structured 
set of functionally related component data elements, as 
described in a composite data element specification.  In 
transfer, a composite data element is a specific ordered set 
of one or more component data element(s) in conformance with a 
composite data element specification.  [ 14 ]

A.15	composite data element directory: A listing of identified and 
named composite data elements with their composite data 
element specification.  [ 15 ] 

A.16	composite data element specification:  The description of a 
composite data element in a composite data element directory, 
including the specification of the position and status of the 
component data elements constituting the composite data 
element.  [ 16 ]

A.17	conditional: A type of status, used in a message 
specification, segment specification, or composite data 
element specification, to specify that a segment group, 
segment, composite data element, stand-alone data element or 
component data element is used optionally or when the 
appropriate conditions occur.  [ 17 ]

A.18	control character: A character whose occurrence in a 
particular context specifies a control function. (ISO 2382-4)  
[ 18 ]

A.19	data: A representation of facts, concepts or instructions in a 
formalised manner suitable for communication, interpretation 
or processing by human beings or by automatic means. (ISO 
2382-1)	[ 19 ]

A.20	data element: A unit of data described in a data element 
specification.  There are two classes of data element, simple 
data elements and composite data elements.  [ 20 ]

A.21	data element directory: A listing of identified, named and 
specified simple data elements (simple data element directory) 
or composite data elements (composite data element directory).  
[ 21 ]

A.22	data element separator: A service character used to separate 
non repeating stand-alone data elements and/or composite data 
elements in a segment.  [ 22 ] 

A.23	data element specification: The specification of a composite 
data element in a composite data element directory (composite 
data element specification), or of a simple data element in a 
simple data element directory (simple data element 
specification).  [ 23 ]

A.24	data element value: A specific instance of a simple data 
element, represented as specified in a simple data element 
specification and, if the simple data element is coded, in a 
code list.  [ 24 ]

A.25	data value representation: The types of characters allowed 
(e.g. alphabetic, numeric) and conditions of length relating 
to the data element values of a simple data element.  [ 25 ]

A.26	decimal mark: The character that separates the digits forming 
the integral part of a number from those forming the 
fractional part. (ISO 6093)  [ 26 ]

A.27	default service characters: The set of characters used as 
service characters in circumstances where a different set is 
not defined in the service string advice.  [ 27 ]

A.28	dependency identifier: An identifier used in a dependency note 
to specify the type of dependency between the entities listed 
in the dependency note.  [ 28 ]

A.29	dependency note: A note used: i. in a message specification to 
express relationships between segment groups or between 
segments; ii. in a segment specification to express 
relationships between data elements; iii. in a composite data 
element specification to express relationships between 
component data elements.  [ 29 ]

A.30	dialogue: A two-way conversation between an initiator and 
responder within an I-EDI transaction.  It is formally 
composed of a pair of interchanges.  [ 30 ]

A.31	electronic data interchange (EDI): The electronic transfer 
from computer to computer of commercial or administrative 
transactions using an agreed standard to structure the 
transaction or message data.  [ 31 ]

A.32	encoding: The representation of a character as a bit 
combination.  [ 32 ]

A.33	exponent mark: A control character used to indicate that the 
character(s) that follow it are to be interpreted as an 
exponent.  E or e is the exponent mark.  [ 33 ]

A.34	graphic character: A character, other than a control 
character, that has a visual representation and is normally 
produced by writing, printing or displaying. (ISO 2382-4)  [ 34 ]

A.35	group: A group of messages (of one or more message types) 
and/or packages (each containing an object), headed by a group 
header and ending with a group trailer.  [ 35 ]

A.36	group header: The service segment heading and identifying a 
group.  [ 36 ]

A.37	group trailer: The service segment ending a group.  [ 37 ]

A.38	identifier: A character or group of characters used to 
identify or name an item of data and possibly to indicate 
certain properties of that data. (ISO 2382-4)  [ 38 ]

A.39	ideogram: In a natural language, a graphic character that 
represents a concept and associated sound elements.  Example; 
A Chinese ideogram or a Japanese Kanji. (ISO 2382-4)  [ 39 ]

A.40	initiator: The application which starts the dialogue and/or I-
EDI transaction.  [ 40 ]

A.41	interactive EDI (I-EDI): The exchange of pre-defined and 
structured data within a dialogue, which conforms to the 
syntax of Parts 1 and 3 of ISO 9735 for some business purpose, 
between a pair of co-operating processes, in a timely manner.  
[ 41 ]

A.42	interchange: A sequence of messages, of the same or of 
different types, starting with the interchange header (or with 
the service string advice if used), and ending with the 
interchange trailer.	[ 42 ]

A.43	interchange header: The service segment starting and uniquely 
identifying an interchange.  [ 43 ]

A.44	interchange trailer: The service segment ending an 
interchange.  [ 44 ]

A.45	I-EDI transaction: An instance of a scenario.  It consists of 
one or more dialogues.  [ 45 ]

A.46	mandatory: A type of status, used in a message specification, 
segment specification, or composite data element 
specification, to specify that a segment group, segment, 
composite data element, stand-alone data element or component 
data element shall be used at least one time.  [ 46 ]

A.47	message: An identified, named and structured set of 
functionally related segments, covering the requirements for a 
specific type of transaction (e.g. invoice), as described in a 
message specification; a message starts with a message header 
and ends with a message trailer.  In transfer, a message is a 
specific ordered set of segments in conformance with a message 
specification.	[ 47 ]

A.48	message body: An identified, named and structured set of 
functionally related segments, covering the requirements for a 
specific type of transaction (e.g. invoice), as described in a 
message specification, excluding the message header and the 
message trailer.  [ 48 ]

A.49	message directory: A listing of identified and named messages 
each with its message specification.	[ 49 ]

A.50	message header: The service segment starting and uniquely 
identifying a message.  [ 49 ]

A.51	message specification:  The description of a message in a 
message directory, including the specification of the 
position, status and maximum number of occurrences of the 
segments and segment groups constituting the message.  [ 51 ]

A.52	message trailer: The service segment ending a message.  [ 52 ]

A.53	message type: Code identifying a type of message .  [ 53 ] 

A.54	numeric character set: A character set that contains digits 
and may contain control characters and special characters but 
not letters. (ISO 2382-4)  [ 54 ]

A.55	object: A stream of octet bits (which may be associated with 
an EDIFACT message).  [ 55 ]

A.56	object header: The service segment starting and uniquely 
identifying an object.  [ 56 ]

A.57	object trailer: The service segment ending an object.  [ 57 ]

A.58	organisation: A unique framework of authority within which a 
person or persons act, or are designated to act, towards some 
purpose. (ISO 6523)  [ 58 ]

A.59	package: An object plus its associated header and trailer 
segments.  [ 59 ]

A.60	parent-child relationship: A relationship between two 
entities, one ("child") being contained within and directly 
subordinated to the other ("parent").  [ 60 ]

A.61	position identifier: An identifier used in a dependency note 
to identify an entity (segment group, segment, or data 
element) by its position in the parent entity.  [ 61 ]

A.62	qualifier: A simple data element whose data element value, 
extracted from a code list, gives specific meaning to the 
function of another data element or a segment.  [ 62 ]

A.63	release character: A character indicating that the character 
immediately following it shall be passed to the application as 
received.  [ 63 ]

A.64	repeating data element: A composite data element or stand-
alone data element having a maximum occurrence of greater than 
one in the segment specification.  [ 64 ]

A.65	repetition separator: A service character used to separate 
adjacent occurrences of a repeating data element.  [ 65 ]

A.66	responder: An application replying to an initiator.  [ 66 ]

A.67	scenario: A formal specification of a class of business 
activities having the same business goal  [ 67 ]

A.68	segment: An identified, named and structured set of 
functionally related composite data elements and/or stand-
alone data elements, as described in a segment specification; 
a segment starts with the segment tag and ends with the 
segment terminator.  In transfer, a segment is a specific 
ordered set of one or more composite data element(s) and/or 
stand-alone data element(s) in conformance with a segment 
specification.  [ 68 ]

A.69	segment directory: A listing of identified and named segments 
with their segment specification. [ 69 ]

A.70	segment group: An identified hierarchical set of segments 
and/or segment groups within a message.	[ 70 ]

A.71	segment specification: The description of a segment in a 
segment directory, including the specification of the 
position, status and maximum number of occurrences of the data 
elements constituting the segment.  [ 71 ]

A.72	segment tag: A simple data element uniquely identifying a 
segment, by reference to a segment directory.  [ 72 ]

A.73	segment terminator: A service character indicating the end of 
a segment.  [ 73 ]

A.74	service character: A character reserved for syntactical use; 
the service characters are the component data element 
separator, the data element separator, the release character, 
the repetition separator and the segment terminator.  [ 74 ]

A.75	service composite data element: A composite data element used 
in service segments.  A service composite data element 
specification contains only service simple data elements.  [ 75 ]

A.76	service data element: A service simple data element or a 
service composite data element.  [ 76 ]

A.77	service message: A message used to exchange service 
information relating to the use of EDIFACT syntax rules or 
security.  A service message specification contains only 
service segments.  [ 77 ]

A.78	service segment: A segment used i. in service messages; ii. to 
control the transfer of data. A service segment specification 
contains only service composite data elements and/or service 
simple data elements.  [ 78 ]

A.79	service simple data element: A simple data element used only 
in service segments and/or service composite data elements.  [ 79 ]

A.80	service string advice: An optional string of characters used 
at the beginning of an interchange to specify the service 
characters used in the interchange.  [ 80 ]

A.81	simple data element: A data element containing a single data 
element value.  There are two uses of a simple data element: 
within a composite data element (component data element); and 
within a segment outside a composite data element (stand-alone 
data element).  [ 81 ]

A.82	simple data element directory: A listing of identified and 
named simple data elements with their simple data element 
specification.  [ 82 ]

A.83	simple data element specification: The set of attributes 
characterising a simple data element in a simple data element 
directory.  [ 83 ]

A.84	special character: A graphic character that is not a letter, 
digit, or blank character, and usually not an ideogram. ( ISO 
2382-4)  [ 84 ]

A.85	stand-alone data element: A simple data element used within a 
segment without being in a composite data element.  [ 85 ]

A.86	status: An attribute of a segment, a composite data element or 
a simple data element identifying the rules for the presence 
or absence of the segment/data element in the usage of a 
message.  The types of status are conditional and mandatory.  
[ 86 ]

A.87	string: A sequence of elements of the same nature, such as 
characters, considered as a whole.
	(ISO 2382-4)  [ 87 ]

A.88	transfer: The communication of information from one partner to 
another.  [ 88 ]

A.89	trigger segment: The segment starting a segment group.  [ 89 ]


Annex B
(normative)

UNA service string advice


The service string advice shall begin with the upper case 
characters UNA immediately followed by six characters in the order 
shown below.  The space character shall not be used in positions 
010, 020, 040, 050 or 060.  The same character shall not be used 
in more than one position of the UNA.


	POS	REP	S	Name		Remarks		

	010	an1	M	COMPONENT DATA  ELEMENT
				SEPARATOR

	020	an1	M	DATA ELEMENT SEPARATOR

	030	an1	M	DECIMAL MARK		The character 
							transferred in this 
							position shall be 
							ignored by the 
							recipient.  Retained to 
							maintain upward 
							compatibility with 
							earlier versions of the 
							syntax.
	040	an1	M 	RELEASE CHARACTER

	050	an1	M	REPETITION SEPARATOR

	060	an1	M	SEGMENT TERMINATOR


Legend:

POS	The 3 numeric sequential number of the character in the 
service string

REP		The representation of the service 
string character
		an1 = 1 alphanumeric character

S		The status of the service string character
		M    =  Mandatory

Name	Name of the service string advice character

Remarks	Additional remarks


Annex C
(normative)

Syntax service directories
(segments, composite data elements and simple data elements)


C.1	Segment directory


C.1.1	Segment specification legend:

Function	The function of the segment

POS	The sequential position number of the stand-alone data 
element or composite data element in the segment table

TAG	The tag for the data elements contained in the segment.  
The tags of all service composite data elements start with 
the letter "S", and the tags of all service simple data 
elements start with the figure "0" 

Name	Name of a COMPOSITE DATA ELEMENT in capital letters
	Name of a STAND-ALONE DATA ELEMENT in capital letters
	Name of a component data element in small letters

S	The status of the stand-alone data element or composite 
data element in the segment, or of the components in the 
composite (where M = Mandatory and C = Conditional)

R	The maximum number of occurrences of a stand-alone data 
element or composite data element in the segment

Repr.	Data value representation of the stand-alone data element 
or component data elements in the composite.

		a	alphabetic characters
		n	numeric characters
		an	alphanumeric characters
		a3	3 alphabetic characters, fixed length
		n3	3 numeric characters, fixed length
		an3	3 alphanumeric characters, fixed length
		a..3	up to 3 alphabetic characters
		n..3	up to 3 numeric characters
		an..3	up to 3 alphanumeric characters

Notes	Segment note number(s)


C.1.2	Dependency note identifiers

Code
Name

D1
One and only one

D2
All or none

D3
One or more

D4
One or none

D5
If first, then all

D6
If first, then at least one 
more

D7
If first, then none of the 
others


See clause 11.5 for the definition of the dependency note 
identifiers


C.1.3	Index of segments by tag

	TAG	Name

	UIB	Interactive interchange header
	UIH	Interactive message header
	UIR	Interactive status
	UIT	Interactive message trailer
	UIZ	Interactive interchange trailer
	UNB	Interchange header
	UNE	Group trailer
	UNG	Group header
	UNH	Message header
	UNO	Object header
	UNP	Object trailer
	UNS	Section control
	UNT	Message trailer
	UNZ	Interchange trailer




C.1.4	Index of segments by name

	TAG	Name

	UNG	Group header
	UNE	Group trailer
	UIB	Interactive interchange header
	UIZ	Interactive interchange trailer
	UIH	Interactive message header
	UIT	Interactive message trailer
	UIR	Interactive status
	UNB	Interchange header
	UNZ	Interchange trailer
	UNH	Message header
	UNT	Message trailer
	UNO	Object header
	UNP	Object trailer
	UNS	Section control



C.1.5	Segment specifications

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------
      UIB    INTERACTIVE INTERCHANGE HEADER

      Function: To head and identify an interchange.

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   S001  SYNTAX IDENTIFIER                           M 1            
3
      0001   Syntax identifier                          M     a4
      0002   Syntax version number                      M     an1
      0080   Service code list directory version number C     
an..6
      0133   Character encoding, coded                  C     
an..3

020   S302  DIALOGUE REFERENCE                          C 1            
1,2,4,5
                                                                       
8
      0300   Initiator control reference                M     
an..35
      0303   Initiator reference identification         C     
an..35
      0051   Controlling agency, coded                  C     
an..3
      0304   Responder control reference                C     
an..35

030   S303  TRANSACTION REFERENCE                       C 1            
1,8
      0306   Transaction control reference              M     
an..35
      0303   Initiator reference identification         C     
an..35
      0051   Controlling agency, coded                  C     
an..3

040   S018  SCENARIO IDENTIFICATION                     C 1
      0127   Scenario identification                    M     
an..14
      0128   Scenario version number                    C     
an..3
      0130   Scenario release number                    C     
an..3
      0051   Controlling agency, coded                  C     
an..3

050   S305  DIALOGUE IDENTIFICATION                     C 1            
2
      0311   Dialogue identification                    M     
an..14
      0342   Dialogue version number                    C     
an..3
      0344   Dialogue release number                    C     
an..3
      0051   Controlling agency, coded                  C     
an..3

060   S002  INTERCHANGE SENDER                          C 1            
5
      0004   Interchange sender identification          M     
an..35
      0007   Identification code qualifier              C     
an..4
      0008   Interchange sender internal identification C     
an..35
      0042   Interchange sender internal
             sub-identification                         C     
an..35

070   S003  INTERCHANGE RECIPIENT                       C 1
      0010   Interchange recipient identification       M     
an..35
      0007   Identification code qualifier              C     
an..4
      0014   Interchange recipient internal
             identification                             C     
an..35
      0046   Interchange recipient internal
             sub-identification                         C     
an..35

080   S300  DATE AND/OR TIME OF INITIATION              C 1
      0338   Event date                                 C     n..8
      0314   Event time                                 C     
an..15
      0336   Time offset                                C     n4
090   0325  DUPLICATE INDICATOR                         C 1   a1       
6

100   0035  TEST INDICATOR                              C 1   n1       
7



DEPENDENCY NOTES:

1.  D5(030, 020) If first, then all

2.  D5(050, 020) If first, then all

OTHER NOTES:

3.  S001/0002, shall be '4' to indicate this version of the 
syntax.

4.  S302/0304, when provided by the responder, shall be returned 
by the
    initiator throughout the dialogue.

5.  S002/0004, may be same as S302/0303 for initiator of 
transaction.

6.  0325, only used if the interchange is a duplicate transfer.

7.  0035, set by the initiator if the dialogue is a test. Applies 
to every
    subsequent message and service segment in the dialogue. 
Otherwise not used.

8.  Dialogue and transaction control can be accomplished through 
the dialogue
    (S302) and transaction (S303) references. Optionally, if 
another means of
    control is chosen, these two composite data elements need not 
be utilised.
------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      UIH    INTERACTIVE MESSAGE HEADER

      Function: To head, identify and specify a message.

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   S306  INTERACTIVE MESSAGE IDENTIFIER              M 1
      0065   Message type                               M     
an..6
      0052   Message version number                     M     
an..3
      0054   Message release number                     M     
an..3
      0113   Message type sub-function identification   C     
an..6
      0051   Controlling agency, coded                  C     
an..3
      0057   Association assigned code                  C     
an..6

020   0340  INTERACTIVE MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER        C 1   
an..35   1,5

030   S302  DIALOGUE REFERENCE                          C 1            
2,4,5
      0300   Initiator control reference                M     
an..35
      0303   Initiator reference identification         C     
an..35
      0051   Controlling agency, coded                  C     
an..3
      0304   Responder control reference                C     
an..35

040   S301  STATUS OF TRANSFER - INTERACTIVE            C 1
      0320   Sender sequence number                     C     n..6
      0323   Transfer position, coded                   C     a1
      0325   Duplicate indicator                        C     a1

050   S300  DATE AND/OR TIME OF INITIATION              C 1
      0338   Event date                                 C     n..8
      0314   Event time                                 C     
an..15
      0336   Time offset                                C     n4

060   0035  TEST INDICATOR                              C 1   n1       
3

NOTES:

1.  The value in 0340 shall be unique within the interchange 
(except for a
    duplicate transfer).

2.  The value(s) in S302 shall be identical to the value(s) in 
S302 in the
    preceding UIB.

3.  0035, when used, test applies to the message only.

4.  Dialogue control can be accomplished through the dialogue 
reference (S302).
    Optionally, if another means of control is chosen, this 
composite data
    element need not be utilised. 

5.  A combination of 0340 and S302 may be used to identify 
uniquely a message.

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      UIR    INTERACTIVE STATUS

      Function: To report the status of the dialogue.

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   0331  REPORT FUNCTION, CODED                      M 1   
an..3

020   S307  REPORT REASON                               C 9
      0333   Report reason, coded                       C     
an..3
      0332   Report reason text                         C     
an..70
      0335   Report language, coded                     C     
an..3

030   S302  DIALOGUE REFERENCE                          C 1
      0300   Initiator control reference                M     
an..35
      0303   Initiator reference identification         C     
an..35
      0051   Controlling agency, coded                  C     
an..3
      0304   Responder control reference                C     
an..35
040   S300  DATE AND/OR TIME OF INITIATION              C 1
      0338   Event date                                 C     n..8
      0314   Event time                                 C     
an..15
      0336   Time offset                                C     n4

050   0340   INTERACTIVE MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER       C 1   
an..35   1,2

060   0800   PACKAGE REFERENCE NUMBER                   C 1   
an..35   1,3

DEPENDENCY NOTES:

1.  D1(050, 060) One and only one

OTHER NOTES:

2.  0340, the value shall be identical to the value in 0340 in the 
UIH
    of a message received by the sender of the UIR within the same 
dialogue.
3.  0800, the value shall be identical to the value in 0800 in the 
UNO
    received by the sender of the UIR within the same dialogue.

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------



------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

UIT    INTERACTIVE MESSAGE TRAILER

      Function: To end and check the completeness of a message.

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   0340  INTERACTIVE MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER        C 1   
an..35   1

020   0074  NUMBER OF SEGMENTS IN A MESSAGE             C 1   
n..10

NOTES:

1.  0340, the value shall be identical to the value in 0340 in the
    corresponding UIH segment.

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

UIZ    INTERACTIVE INTERCHANGE TRAILER

      Function: To end and check the completeness of an 
interchange.

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   S302  DIALOGUE REFERENCE                          C 1            
1
      0300   Initiator control reference                M     
an..35
      0303   Initiator reference identification         C     
an..35
      0051   Controlling Agency, coded                  C     
an..3
      0304   Responder control reference                C     
an..35

020   0036  INTERCHANGE CONTROL COUNT                   C 1   n..6

030   0325  DUPLICATE INDICATOR                         C 1   a1       
2

NOTES:

1.  S302, the value shall be identical to the value in the 
responder's
    dialogue reference in S302 in the UIB segment.

2.  0325, only used if the interchange is a duplicate transfer.

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------



------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      UNB    INTERCHANGE HEADER

      Function: To identify an interchange.

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   S001  SYNTAX IDENTIFIER                           M 1            
1
      0001   Syntax identifier                          M     a4
      0002   Syntax version number                      M     an1
      0080   Service code list directory version number C     
an..6
      0133   Character encoding, coded                  C     
an..3

020   S002  INTERCHANGE SENDER                          M 1            
2
      0004   Interchange sender identification          M     
an..35
      0007   Identification code qualifier              C     
an..4
      0008   Interchange sender internal identification C     
an..35
      0042   Interchange sender internal
             sub-identification                         C     
an..35

030   S003  INTERCHANGE RECIPIENT                       M 1            
2
      0010   Interchange recipient identification       M     
an..35
      0007   Identification code qualifier              C     
an..4
      0014   Interchange recipient internal
             identification                             C     
an..35
      0046   Interchange recipient internal
             sub-identification                         C     
an..35

040   S004  DATE AND TIME OF PREPARATION                M 1
      0017   Date                                       M     n6
      0019   Time                                       M     n4

050   0020  INTERCHANGE CONTROL REFERENCE               M 1   
an..14   2

060   S005  RECIPIENT REFERENCE/PASSWORD DETAILS        C 1
      0022   Recipient reference/password               M     
an..14
      0025   Recipient reference/password qualifier     C     an2

070   0026  APPLICATION REFERENCE                       C 1   
an..14

080   0029  PROCESSING PRIORITY CODE                    C 1   a1

090   0031  ACKNOWLEDGEMENT REQUEST                     C 1   n1

100   0032  INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT IDENTIFIER            C 1   
an..35

110   0035  TEST INDICATOR                              C 1   n1

NOTES:

1.  S001/0002, shall be '4' to indicate this version of the 
syntax.

2.  The combination of the values carried in data elements S002, 
S003 and 0020
    shall be used to identify uniquely the interchange, for the 
purpose of
    acknowledgement.

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------



------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      UNE    GROUP TRAILER

      Function: To end and check the completeness of a group

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   0060  GROUP CONTROL COUNT                         M 1   n..6

020   0048  GROUP REFERENCE NUMBER                      M 1   
an..14   1


NOTES:

1.  0048, the value shall be identical to the value in 0048 in the
    corresponding UNG segment.

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      UNG    GROUP HEADER

      Function: To head, identify and specify a group of messages 
and/or
                packages, which may be used for internal routing 
and which may
                contain one or more message types and/or packages.

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   0038  MESSAGE GROUP IDENTIFICATION                C 1   
an..6    1,2,4

020   S006  APPLICATION SENDER IDENTIFICATION           C 1            
5
      0040   Application sender identification          M     
an..35
      0007   Identification code qualifier              C     
an..4

030   S007  APPLICATION RECIPIENT IDENTIFICATION        C 1            
5
      0044   Application recipient identification       M     
an..35
      0007   Identification code qualifier              C     
an..4

040   S004  DATE AND TIME OF PREPARATION                C 1            
3
      0017   Date                                       M     n6
      0019   Time                                       M     n4

050   0048  GROUP REFERENCE NUMBER                      M 1   
an..14   5

060   0051  CONTROLLING AGENCY, CODED                   C 1   
an..3    1,2,4

070   S008  MESSAGE VERSION                             C 1            
1,2,4
      0052   Message version number                     M     
an..3
      0054   Message release number                     M     
an..3
      0057   Association assigned code                  C     
an..6

080   0058  APPLICATION PASSWORD                        C 1   
an..14

DEPENDENCY NOTES:

1.  D2(010, 060, 070) All or none



OTHER NOTES:

2.  This data element is only used if the following conditions 
apply:
    i)  the group contains messages only, and
    ii) the messages are of a single message type.

3.  S004, if S004 is not present in UNG, the date and time of 
preparation is
    the same as indicated for the interchange in S004 in UNB.

4.  This data element will be deleted from the UNG segment in the 
next version
    of the standard. Therefore its use in UNG is not recommended.

5.  The combination of the values carried in data elements S006, 
S007 and 0048
    shall be used to identify uniquely the group within its 
interchange, for
    the purpose of acknowledgement.

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      UNH    MESSAGE HEADER

      Function: To head, identify and specify a message.

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   0062  MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER                    M 1   
an..14   2

020   S009  MESSAGE IDENTIFIER                          M 1            
1,2
      0065   Message type                               M     
an..6
      0052   Message version number                     M     
an..3
      0054   Message release number                     M     
an..3
      0051   Controlling agency, coded                  M     
an..3
      0057   Association assigned code                  C     
an..6
      0110   Code list directory version number         C     
an..6
      0113   Message type sub-function identification   C     
an..6

030   0068  COMMON ACCESS REFERENCE                     C 1   
an..35

040   S010  STATUS OF THE TRANSFER                      C 1
      0070   Sequence of transfers                      M     n..2
      0073   First and last transfer                    C     a1
050   S016  MESSAGE SUBSET IDENTIFICATION               C 1            
1
      0115   Message subset identification              M     
an..14
      0116   Message subset version number              C     
an..3
      0118   Message subset release number              C     
an..3
      0051   Controlling agency, coded                  C     
an..3

060   S017  MESSAGE IMPLEMENTATION GUIDELINE
            IDENTIFICATION                              C 1            
1
      0121   Message implementation guideline
             identification                             M     
an..14
      0122   Message implementation guideline version
             number                                     C     
an..3
      0124   Message implementation guideline release
             number                                     C     
an..3
      0051   Controlling agency, coded                  C     
an..3

070   S018  SCENARIO IDENTIFICATION                     C 1
      0127   Scenario identification                    M     
an..14
      0128   Scenario version number                    C     
an..3
      0130   Scenario release number                    C     
an..3
      0051   Controlling agency, coded                  C     
an..3



NOTES:

1.  Data element S009/0057 is retained for upward compatibility. 
The use of S016
    and/or S017 is encouraged in preference.

2.  The combination of the values carried in data elements 0062 
and S009 shall
    be used to identify uniquely the message within its group (if 
used) or if
    not used, within its interchange, for the purpose of 
acknowledgement.

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

UNO    OBJECT HEADER

      Function: To head, identify and specify an object.

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   0800  PACKAGE REFERENCE NUMBER                    M 1   
an..35   1

020   S020  REFERENCE IDENTIFICATION                    M 99           
2
      0813   Reference qualifier                        M     
an..3
      0802   Reference identification number            M     
an..35

030   S021  OBJECT TYPE IDENTIFICATION                  M 99           
3
      0805   Object type qualifier                      M     
an..3
      0809   Object type attribute identification       C     
an..256
      0808   Object type attribute                      C     
an..256
      0051   Controlling agency, coded                  C     
an..3

040   S022  STATUS OF THE OBJECT                        M 1
      0810   Length of object in octet bits             M     
n..18
      0814   Number of segments before object           C     n..3
      0070   Sequence of transfers                      C     n..2
      0073   First and last transfer                    C     a1

050   S302  DIALOGUE REFERENCE                          C 1            
4
      0300   Initiator control reference                M     
an..35
      0303   Initiator reference identification         C     
an..35
      0051   Controlling agency, coded                  C     
an..3
      0304   Responder control reference                C     
an..35

060   S301  STATUS OF TRANSFER - INTERACTIVE            C 1            
4
      0320   Sender sequence number                     C     n..6
      0323   Transfer position, coded                   C     a1
      0325   Duplicate indicator                        C     a1

070   S300  DATE AND/OR TIME OF INITIATION              C 1            
4
      0338   Event date                                 C     n..8
      0314   Event time                                 C     
an..15
      0336   Time offset                                C     n4

080   0035  TEST INDICATOR                              C 1   n1       
4


NOTES:

1.  The value in 0800 shall be unique within the interchange 
(except for a
    duplicate transfer).
2.  One mandatory occurrence of S020 shall identify the Object 
Identification
    Number.

3.  One occurrence of S021 is mandatory and shall be used for file 
format
    identification.

4.  Data elements S302, S301, S300 and 0035 are for interactive 
EDI use only:
    - The value(s) in S302 shall be identical to the value(s) in 
S302 in the
      preceding UIB.
    - 0035, when used, test applies to the message or package 
only.

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      UNP    OBJECT TRAILER

      Function: To end and check the completeness of an object.

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   0810  LENGTH OF OBJECT IN OCTET BITS              M 1   
n..18    1

020   0800  PACKAGE REFERENCE NUMBER                    M 1   
an..35   2


NOTES:

1.  0810, shall be identical to the value in data element 0810 in 
UNO.

2.  0800, shall be identical to the value in data element 0800 in 
UNO.

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      UNS    SECTION CONTROL

      Function: To separate header, detail and summary sections of 
a message.

          Note: To be used by message designers only when required 
to avoid
                ambiguities.

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   0081  SECTION IDENTIFICATION                      M 1   a1

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      UNT    MESSAGE TRAILER

      Function: To end and check the completeness of a message.

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   0074  NUMBER OF SEGMENTS IN A MESSAGE             M 1   
n..10

020   0062  MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER                    M 1   
an..14   1

NOTES:

1.  0062, the value shall be identical to the value in 0062 in the
    corresponding UNH segment.

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------



------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      UNZ    INTERCHANGE TRAILER

      Function: To end and check the completeness of an 
interchange.

POS   TAG   Name                                        S R   
Repr.    Notes

010   0036  INTERCHANGE CONTROL COUNT                   M 1   n..6

020   0020  INTERCHANGE CONTROL REFERENCE               M 1   
an..14   1

NOTES:

1.  0020, the value shall be identical to the value in 0020 in the
    corresponding UNB segment.

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------



C.2	Composite data element directory


C.2.1	Composite data element specification legend:

POS	The sequential position number of the component data 
element in the composite data element

TAG	The tag for the component data elements contained in the 
composite data element.  The tags of all service composite 
data elements start with the letter “S”, and the tags of 
all service simple data elements start with the figure "0"

Name	Name of a component data element in small letters

S	The status of the component data element in the composite 
data element
	(where M = Mandatory and C = Conditional)

Repr.	Data value representation of the component data elements in 
the composite.

		a	alphabetic characters
		n	numeric characters
		an	alphanumeric characters
		a3	3 alphabetic characters, fixed length
		n3	3 numeric characters, fixed length
		an3	3 alphanumeric characters, fixed length
		a..3	up to 3 alphabetic characters
		n..3	up to 3 numeric characters
		an..3	up to 3 alphanumeric characters

Notes	Composite data element note number(s)

Desc.	Description of the composite data element


C.2.2	Dependency note identifiers

Code
Name

D1
One and only one

D2
All or none

D3
One or more

D4
One or none

D5
If first, then all

D6
If first, then at least one 
more

D7
If first, then none of the 
others


See clause 11.5 for the definition of the dependency note 
identifiers




C.2.3	Index of composite data elements by tag

	TAG	Name

	S001	Syntax identifier
	S002	Interchange sender
	S003	Interchange recipient
	S004	Date and time of preparation
	S005	Recipient reference/password details
	S006	Application sender identification
	S007	Application recipient identification
	S008	Message version
	S009	Message identifier
	S010	Status of the transfer
	S016	Message subset identification
	S017	Message implementation guideline identification
	S018	Scenario identification
	S020	Reference identification
	S021	Object type identification
	S022	Status of the object
	S300	Date and/or time of initiation
	S301	Status of transfer - interactive
	S302	Dialogue reference
	S303	Transaction reference
	S305	Dialogue identification
	S306	Interactive message identifier
	S307	Report reason




C.2.4	Index of composite data elements by name

	TAG	Name

	S007	Application recipient identification
	S006	Application sender identification
	S004	Date and time of preparation
	S300	Date and/or time of initiation
	S305	Dialogue identification
	S302	Dialogue reference
	S306	Interactive message identifier
	S003	Interchange recipient
	S002	Interchange sender
	S009	Message identifier
	S017	Message implementation guideline identification
	S016	Message subset identification
	S008	Message version
	S021	Object type identification
	S005	Recipient reference/password details
	S020	Reference identification
	S307	Report reason
	S018	Scenario identification
	S022	Status of the object
	S010	Status of the transfer
	S301	Status of transfer - interactive
	S001	Syntax identifier
	S303	Transaction reference


C.2.5	Composite data element specifications

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      S001  SYNTAX IDENTIFIER

      Desc: Identification of the agency controlling the syntax, 
the syntax
            level and version number, and the service code 
directory.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0001   Syntax identifier                             M a4
020   0002   Syntax version number                         M an1
030   0080   Service code list directory version number    C an..6
040   0133   Character encoding, coded                     C an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------



------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------

      S002  INTERCHANGE SENDER

      Desc: Identification of the sender of the interchange.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0004   Interchange sender identification             M 
an..35
020   0007   Identification code qualifier                 C an..4
030   0008   Interchange sender internal identification    C 
an..35
040   0042   Interchange sender internal
             sub-identification                            C 
an..35

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      S003  INTERCHANGE RECIPIENT

      Desc: Identification of the recipient of the interchange.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0010   Interchange recipient identification          M 
an..35
020   0007   Identification code qualifier                 C an..4
030   0014   Interchange recipient internal
             identification                                C 
an..35
040   0046   Interchange recipient internal
             sub-identification                            C 
an..35

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      S004  DATE AND TIME OF PREPARATION

      Desc: Date and time of preparation of the interchange.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0017   Date                                          M n6
020   0019   Time                                          M n4

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      S005  RECIPIENT REFERENCE/PASSWORD DETAILS

      Desc: Reference or password as agreed between the 
communicating partners.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0022   Recipient reference/password                  M 
an..14
020   0025   Recipient reference/password qualifier        C an2

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------


------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      S006  APPLICATION SENDER IDENTIFICATION

      Desc: Sender identification of for example a division, 
branch or
            application computer system/process.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0040   Application sender identification             M 
an..35
020   0007   Identification code qualifier                 C an..4   

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      S007  APPLICATION RECIPIENT IDENTIFICATION

      Desc: Recipient identification of for example a division, 
branch or
            application computer system/process.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0044   Application recipient identification          M 
an..35
020   0007   Identification code qualifier                 C an..4

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      S008  MESSAGE VERSION

      Desc: Specification of the version and release numbers of 
all of the
            messages of a single type in the group.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0052   Message version number                        M an..3
020   0054   Message release number                        M an..3
030   0057   Association assigned code                     C an..6

------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      S009  MESSAGE IDENTIFIER

      Desc: Identification of the type, version, etc. of the 
message being
            interchanged.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0065   Message type                                  M an..6
020   0052   Message version number                        M an..3
030   0054   Message release number                        M an..3
040   0051   Controlling agency, coded                     M an..3
050   0057   Association assigned code                     C an..6
060   0110   Code list directory version number            C an..6
070   0113   Message type sub-function identification      C an..6

------------------------------------------------------------------
------------



------------------------------------------------------------------
------------

      S010  STATUS OF THE TRANSFER

      Desc: Statement that the message is one in a sequence of 
transfers
            relating to the same topic.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0070   Sequence of transfers                         M n..2
020   0073   First and last transfer                       C a1

------------------------------------------------------------------
------------

      S016  MESSAGE SUBSET IDENTIFICATION

      Desc: To identify a message subset by its identifier, 
version, release and
            source.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0115   Message subset identification                 M 
an..14
020   0116   Message subset version number                 C an..3
030   0118   Message subset release number                 C an..3
040   0051   Controlling agency, coded                     C an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------
------------

      S017  MESSAGE IMPLEMENTATION GUIDELINE IDENTIFICATION

      Desc: To identify a message implementation guideline by its 
identifier,
            version, release and source.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0121   Message implementation guideline
             identification                                M 
an..14
020   0122   Message implementation guideline version
             number                                        C an..3
030   0124   Message implementation guideline release
             number                                        C an..3
040   0051   Controlling agency, coded                     C an..3
------------------------------------------------------------------
------------

S018  SCENARIO IDENTIFICATION

      Desc: To identify a scenario.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0127   Scenario identification                       M 
an..14
020   0128   Scenario version number                       C an..3
030   0130   Scenario release number                       C an..3
040   0051   Controlling agency, coded                     C an..3
-----------------------------------------------------------------
-------------



-----------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      S020  REFERENCE IDENTIFICATION

      Desc: To identify the reference relating to the object.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S 
Repr.   Notes

010   0813   Reference qualifier                           M 
an..3
020   0802   Reference identification number               M 
an..35

-----------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      S021  OBJECT TYPE IDENTIFICATION

      Desc: To identify the attribute related to the object type.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S 
Repr.   Notes

010   0805   Object type qualifier                         M 
an..3
020   0809   Object type attribute identification          C 
an..256 1
030   0808   Object type attribute                         C 
an..256 1
040   0051   Controlling agency, coded                     C 
an..3

DEPENDENCY NOTES:

1.  D3(020, 030) One or more

-----------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

      S022  STATUS OF THE OBJECT

      Desc: To identify the length and if required the transfer 
status of the
            object.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S 
Repr.   Notes

010   0810   Length of object in octet bits                M 
n..18
020   0814   Number of segments before object              C n..3
030   0070   Sequence of transfers                         C n..2
040   0073   First and last transfer                       C a1

-----------------------------------------------------------------
-------------

.     S300  DATE AND/OR TIME OF INITIATION

      Desc: Date and/or time of event initiation.


POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0338   Event date                                    C n..8
020   0314   Event time                                    C 
an..15  1
030   0336   Time offset                                   C n4      
1



DEPENDENCY NOTES:

1.  D5(030, 020) If first, then all
------------------------------------------------------------------


      S301  STATUS OF TRANSFER - INTERACTIVE

      Desc:  Identifies the sequence of the message/package within the
             sender's interchange and the position in a multi-message and/or
             package transfer.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.Notes

010   0320   Sender sequence number                        C n..61
020   0323   Transfer position, coded                      C a12
030   0325   Duplicate indicator                           C a13

NOTES:

1.  0320, starts at 1 and is incremented by 1 for each message and 
package within an interchange.

2.  0323, only used where more than one message or package is 
contained in a single query or response.

3.  0325, only used if a duplicate transfer.

------------------------------------------------------------------


      S302  DIALOGUE REFERENCE

      Desc: Unique reference for the dialogue between co-operating parties
            within the interactive EDI transaction.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr. Notes

010   0300   Initiator control reference                   M an..35
020   0303   Initiator reference identification            C an..35  1
030   0051   Controlling agency, coded                     C an..31
040   0304   Responder control reference                   C an..35

DEPENDENCY NOTES:

1.  D5(030, 020) If first, then all

------------------------------------------------------------------


      S303  TRANSACTION REFERENCE

      Desc: Unique reference for the business transaction to which the
            dialogue belongs.


POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   Notes

010   0306   Transaction control reference                 M an..35
020   0303   Initiator reference identification            C an..35  1
030   0051   Controlling agency, coded                     C an..3 1


DEPENDENCY NOTES:

1.  D5(030, 020) If first, then all
------------------------------------------------------------------


      S305  DIALOGUE IDENTIFICATION

      Desc: Identification of the dialogue type being used for the interactive
            EDI transaction.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   Notes

010   0311   Dialogue identification                       M an..14
020   0342   Dialogue version number                       C an..3
030   0344   Dialogue release number                       C an..3
040   0051   Controlling agency, coded                     C an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------


      S306  INTERACTIVE MESSAGE IDENTIFIER

      Desc: Identification of the type, version and details of the message
            being interchanged.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   
Notes

010   0065   Message type                                  M an..6
020   0052   Message version number                        M an..3
030   0054   Message release number                        M an..3
040   0113   Message type sub-function identification      C an..6
050   0051   Controlling agency, coded                     C an..3
060   0057   Association assigned code                     C an..6

------------------------------------------------------------------


      S307  REPORT REASON

      Desc: Reason for status or error report.

POS   TAG    Name                                          S Repr.   Notes
010   0333   Report reason, coded                          C an..3
020   0332   Report reason text                            C an..70  1,2
030   0335   Report language, coded                        C an..3   1


DEPENDENCY NOTES:

1.  D5(030, 020) If first, then all

OTHER NOTES:

2.  0332, defaults to English in the absence of a value in 0335.

-----------------------------------------------------------------




C.3	Simple data element directory

The service code directory forms part the UN Trade Data 
Interchange Directory (UNTDID).  The most recent UNTDID should be 
used to reference the code values for the coded data elements in 
the following simple data element directory.  Annex D within this 
Part, contains the service code directory as at date of 
publication.


C.3.1	Simple data element specification legend:

Name	Name of a simple data element

Desc.	Description of the simple data element

Repr.	Data value representation of the simple data element:

		a	alphabetic characters
		n	numeric characters
		an	alphanumeric characters
		a3	3 alphabetic characters, fixed length
		n3	3 numeric characters, fixed length
		an3	3 alphanumeric characters, fixed length
		a..3	up to 3 alphabetic characters
		n..3	up to 3 numeric characters
		an..3	up to 3 alphanumeric characters


C.3.2	Index of simple data elements by tag

	TAG	Name

	0001	Syntax identifier
	0002	Syntax version number
	0004	Interchange sender identification
	0007	Identification code qualifier
	0008	Interchange sender internal identification
	0010	Interchange recipient identification
	0014	Interchange recipient internal identification
	0017	Date
	0019	Time
	0020	Interchange control reference
	0022	Recipient reference/password
	0025	Recipient reference/password qualifier
	0026	Application reference
	0029	Processing priority code
	0031	Acknowledgement request
	0032	Interchange agreement identifier
	0035	Test indicator
	0036	Interchange control count
	0038	Message group identification
	0040	Application sender identification
	0042	Interchange sender internal sub-identification
	0044	Application recipient identification
	0046	Interchange recipient internal sub-identification
	0048	Group reference number
	0051	Controlling agency, coded
	0052	Message version number
	0054	Message release number
	0057	Association assigned code
	0058	Application password
	0060	Group control count
	0062	Message reference number
	0065	Message type
	0068	Common access reference
	0070	Sequence of transfers
	0073	First and last transfer
	0074	Number of segments in a message
	0080	Service code list directory version number
	0081	Section identification
	0110	Code list directory version number
	0113	Message type sub-function identification
	0115	Message subset identification
	0116	Message subset version number
	0118	Message subset release number
	0121	Message implementation guideline identification
	0122	Message implementation guideline version number
	0124	Message implementation guideline release number
	0127	Scenario identification
	0128	Scenario version number
	0130	Scenario release number
	0133	Character encoding, coded
	0135	Service segment tag, coded
	0300	Initiator control reference
	0303	Initiator reference identification
	0304	Responder control reference
	0306	Transaction control reference
	0311	Dialogue identification
	0314	Event time
	0320	Sender sequence number
	0323	Transfer position, coded
	0325	Duplicate indicator
	0331	Report function, coded
	0332	Report reason text
	0333	Report reason, coded
	0335	Report language, coded
	0336	Time offset
	0338	Event date
	0340	Interactive message reference number
	0342	Dialogue version number
	0344	Dialogue release number
	0800	Package reference number
	0802	Reference identification number
	0805	Object type qualifier
	0808	Object type attribute
	0809	Object type attribute identification
	0810	Length of object in octet bits
	0813	Reference qualifier
	0814	Number of segments before object


C.3.3	Index of simple data elements by name

	TAG	Name

	0031	Acknowledgement request
	0058	Application password
	0044	Application recipient identification
	0026	Application reference
	0040	Application sender identification
	0057	Association assigned code
	0133	Character encoding, coded
	0110	Code list directory version number
	0068	Common access reference
	0051	Controlling agency, coded
	0017	Date
	0311	Dialogue identification
	0344	Dialogue release number
	0342	Dialogue version number
	0325	Duplicate indicator
	0338	Event date
	0314	Event time
	0073	First and last transfer
	0060	Group control count
	0048	Group reference number
	0007	Identification code qualifier
	0300	Initiator control reference
	0303	Initiator reference identification
	0340	Interactive message reference number
	0032	Interchange agreement identifier
	0036	Interchange control count
	0020	Interchange control reference
	0010	Interchange recipient identification
	0014	Interchange recipient internal identification
	0046	Interchange recipient internal sub-identification
	0004	Interchange sender identification
	0008	Interchange sender internal identification
	0042	Interchange sender internal sub-identification
	0810	Length of object in octet bits
	0038	Message group identification
	0121	Message implementation guideline identification
	0124	Message implementation guideline release number
	0122	Message implementation guideline version number
	0062	Message reference number
	0054	Message release number
	0115	Message subset identification
	0118	Message subset release number
	0116	Message subset version number
	0065	Message type
	0113	Message type sub-function identification
	0052	Message version number
	0814	Number of segments before object
	0074	Number of segments in a message
	0808	Object type attribute
	0809	Object type attribute identification
	0805	Object type qualifier
	0800	Package reference number
	0029	Processing priority code
	0022	Recipient reference/password
	0025	Recipient reference/password qualifier
	0802	Reference identification number
	0813	Reference qualifier
	0331	Report function, coded
	0335	Report language, coded
	0332	Report reason text
	0333	Report reason, coded
	0304	Responder control reference
	0127	Scenario identification
	0130	Scenario release number
	0128	Scenario version number
	0081	Section identification
	0320	Sender sequence number
	0070	Sequence of transfers
	0080	Service code list directory version number
	0135	Service segment tag, coded
	0001	Syntax identifier
	0002	Syntax version number
	0035	Test indicator
	0019	Time
	0336	Time offset
	0306	Transaction control reference
	0323	Transfer position, coded




C.3.4	Simple data element specifications

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0001  SYNTAX IDENTIFIER

   Desc: Coded identification of the agency controlling the 
syntax, and of the character repertoire used in an interchange.

   Repr: a4

   Note 1: The data value consists of the letters 'UN', upper case,
           identifying the syntax controlling agency, directly followed by an
           a2 code identifying the character repertoire used.
   Note 2: The character repertoire identified does not include objects and/or
           encrypted message bodies.

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0002  SYNTAX VERSION NUMBER

   Desc: Version number of the syntax.

   Repr: an1

   Note 1: Shall be '4' to indicate this version of the syntax.

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0004  INTERCHANGE SENDER IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Name or coded identification of the sender of the 
interchange.

   Repr: an..35

   Note 1: Organisation code or name as agreed between interchange 
partners.
   Note 2: If coded representation is used, its source may be 
specified by the qualifier in data element 0007.

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0007  IDENTIFICATION CODE QUALIFIER

   Desc: Qualifier referring to the identification code.

   Repr: an..4

   Note 1: A qualifier code may refer to an organisation identification as in
           ISO 6523.

------------------------------------------------------------------


------------------------------------------------------------------


   0008  INTERCHANGE SENDER INTERNAL IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Identification (for example, a division, branch or computer 
         system/process) specified by the sender of interchange, to be
         included if agreed, by the recipient in response interchanges, to
         facilitate internal routing.
   Repr: an..35

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0010  INTERCHANGE RECIPIENT IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Name or coded identification of the recipient of the 
interchange.

   Repr: an..35

   Note 1: Organisation code or name as agreed between interchange partners.
   Note 2: If coded representation is used, its source may be specified by the
           qualifier in data element 0007.

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0014  INTERCHANGE RECIPIENT INTERNAL IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Identification (for example, a division, branch or computer 
         system/process) specified by the recipient of interchange, to be
         included if agreed, by the sender in response interchanges, to
         facilitate internal routing.

   Repr: an..35

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0017  DATE

   Desc: Local date when an interchange or a group was prepared.

   Repr: n6

   Note 1: Format is YYMMDD.

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0019  TIME

   Desc: Local time of day when an interchange or a group was 
prepared.

   Repr: n4

   Note 1: Format is HHMM in 24 hour clock.

------------------------------------------------------------------



------------------------------------------------------------------

   0020  INTERCHANGE CONTROL REFERENCE

   Desc: Unique reference assigned by the sender to an 
interchange.

   Repr: an..14

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0022  RECIPIENT REFERENCE/PASSWORD

   Desc: Reference or password to the recipient's system or to a 
third party network as specified in the partners' interchange 
agreement.

   Repr: an..14

   Note 1: To be used as specified in the partners' interchange 
agreement. It may be qualified by data element 0025.

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0025  RECIPIENT REFERENCE/PASSWORD QUALIFIER

   Desc: Qualifier for the recipient's reference or password.

   Repr: an2

   Note 1: To be used as specified in the partners' interchange 
agreement.

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0026  APPLICATION REFERENCE

   Desc: Identification of the application area assigned by the 
sender, to which the messages in the interchange relate e.g. the 
message type, if all the messages in the interchange are of the same 
type.

   Repr: an..14 

   Note 1: Identification of the application area (e.g. 
accounting, purchasing) or of the message type, as applicable.

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0029  PROCESSING PRIORITY CODE

   Desc: Code determined by the sender requesting processing 
priority for the interchange.

   Repr: a1

   Note 1: To be used as specified in the partners' interchange 
agreement.

------------------------------------------------------------------


------------------------------------------------------------------

   0031  ACKNOWLEDGEMENT REQUEST

   Desc: Code requesting acknowledgement for the interchange.

   Repr: n1

   Note 1: Used if the sender requests that a message related to 
syntactical correctness be sent by the recipient in response.
   Note 2: For UN/EDIFACT a specific message (Syntax and service 
report - CONTRL) is defined for this purpose.

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0032  INTERCHANGE AGREEMENT IDENTIFIER

   Desc: Identification by name or code of the type of agreement 
under which the interchange takes place.

   Repr: an..35

   Note 1: Name or code to be specified in the partners' 
interchange agreement.

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0035  TEST INDICATOR

   Desc: Indication that the structural level containing the test 
indicator is a test.

   Repr: n1

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0036  INTERCHANGE CONTROL COUNT

   Desc: The number of messages and packages in an interchange or, 
if used, the number of groups in an interchange.

   Repr: n..6

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0038  MESSAGE GROUP IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Identification of the single message type in the group.

   Repr: an..6

   Note 1: This data element will be deleted from the next version 
of the standard. Therefore its use is not recommended.

------------------------------------------------------------------


------------------------------------------------------------------

   0040  APPLICATION SENDER IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Name or coded identification of the application sender 
(for example, a division, branch or computer system/process).

   Repr: an..35

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0042  INTERCHANGE SENDER INTERNAL SUB-IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Sub-level of sender internal identification, when further 
sub-level identification is required.

   Repr: an..35

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0044  APPLICATION RECIPIENT IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Name or coded identification of the application recipient 
(for example, a division, branch or computer system/process).

   Repr: an..35

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0046  INTERCHANGE RECIPIENT INTERNAL SUB-IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Sub-level of recipient internal identification, when 
further sub-level identification is required.

   Repr: an..35

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0048  GROUP REFERENCE NUMBER

   Desc: Unique reference number for the group within an 
interchange.

   Repr: an..14

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0051  CONTROLLING AGENCY, CODED

   Desc: Code identifying a controlling agency.

   Repr: an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------


0052  MESSAGE VERSION NUMBER

   Desc: Version number of a message type.

   Repr: an..3
------------------------------------------------------------------


------------------------------------------------------------------


   0054  MESSAGE RELEASE NUMBER

   Desc: Release number within the current message version number.

   Repr: an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0057  ASSOCIATION ASSIGNED CODE

   Desc: Code, assigned by the association responsible for the 
design and maintenance of the message type concerned, which further 
identifies the message.

   Repr: an..6

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0058  APPLICATION PASSWORD

   Desc: Password to the recipient's division, department or 
sectional application system/process.

   Repr: an..14

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0060  GROUP CONTROL COUNT

   Desc: The number of messages and packages in the group.

   Repr: n..6

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0062  MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

   Desc: Unique message reference assigned by the sender.

   Repr: an..14

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0065  MESSAGE TYPE

   Desc: Code identifying a type of message and assigned by its 
controlling agency.

   Repr: an..6

   Note 1: In UNSMs (United Nations Standard Messages), the 
representation is a6.

------------------------------------------------------------------


------------------------------------------------------------------

   0068  COMMON ACCESS REFERENCE

   Desc: Reference serving as a key to relate all subsequent 
transfers of datato the same business case or file.

   Repr: an..35
------------------------------------------------------------------


   0070  SEQUENCE OF TRANSFERS

   Desc: Number assigned by the sender indicating the transfer 
sequence of a message related to the same topic. The message could be 
an addition or a change to an earlier transfer related to the same 
topic.

   Repr: n..2

   Note 1: The first message in the sequence shall be assigned as 
number 1.

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0073  FIRST AND LAST TRANSFER

   Desc: Indication used for the first and last message in a 
sequence of messages related to the same topic.

   Repr: a1

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0074  NUMBER OF SEGMENTS IN A MESSAGE

   Desc: The number of segments in a message, including the 
message header segment and message trailer segment.

   Repr: n..10

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0080  SERVICE CODE LIST DIRECTORY VERSION NUMBER

   Desc: Version number of the service code list directory.

   Repr: an..6

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0081  SECTION IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: To identify the separation of sections of a message.

   Repr: a1

------------------------------------------------------------------



------------------------------------------------------------------

   0110  CODE LIST DIRECTORY VERSION NUMBER

   Desc: Version number of the code list directory.

   Repr: an..6

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0113  MESSAGE TYPE SUB-FUNCTION IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Code identifying a sub-function of a message type.

   Repr: an..6

   Note 1: The code qualifies the message type data element (0065) 
to allow the recipient to identify a specific sub-function of a 
message.

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0115  MESSAGE SUBSET IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Coded identification of a message subset, assigned by its 
controlling agency.

   Repr: an..14

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0116  MESSAGE SUBSET VERSION NUMBER

   Desc: Version number of the message subset.

   Repr: an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0118  MESSAGE SUBSET RELEASE NUMBER

   Desc: Release number within the message subset version number.

   Repr: an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0121  MESSAGE IMPLEMENTATION GUIDELINE IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Coded identification of the message implementation 
guideline, assigned by its controlling agency.

   Repr: an..14

------------------------------------------------------------------



------------------------------------------------------------------

   0122  MESSAGE IMPLEMENTATION GUIDELINE VERSION NUMBER

   Desc: Version number of the message implementation guideline.

   Repr: an..3
------------------------------------------------------------------


   0124  MESSAGE IMPLEMENTATION GUIDELINE RELEASE NUMBER

   Desc: Release number within the message implementation 
guideline version number.

   Repr: an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0127  SCENARIO IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Code identifying scenario.

   Repr: an..14

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0128  SCENARIO VERSION NUMBER

   Desc: Version number of a scenario.

   Repr: an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0130  SCENARIO RELEASE NUMBER

   Desc: Release number within the scenario version number.

   Repr: an..3
------------------------------------------------------------------

   0133  CHARACTER ENCODING, CODED

   Desc: Coded identification of the character encoding used in 
the interchange.

   Repr: an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0135 SERVICE SEGMENT TAG, CODED

   Desc: Code identifying a service segment.

   Repr: an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------


------------------------------------------------------------------

   0300  INITIATOR CONTROL REFERENCE

   Desc: A reference assigned by the dialogue initiator.

   Repr: an..35

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0303  INITIATOR REFERENCE IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Organisation code or name assigned by the party that 
initiated the
         transaction or dialogue.

   Repr: an..35

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0304  RESPONDER CONTROL REFERENCE

   Desc: A reference assigned by the dialogue responder.

   Repr: an..35

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0306  TRANSACTION CONTROL REFERENCE

   Desc: A reference assigned by the transaction initiator.

   Repr: an..35

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0311  DIALOGUE IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Code identifying a dialogue.

   Repr: an..14

------------------------------------------------------------------

   0314  EVENT TIME

   Desc: Time of event.

   Repr: an..15

   Note 1: Format is HHMMSS... with up to 9 more digits of 
precision. A 'Z' as the last character indicates UTC time. (ISO 8601)

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0320  SENDER SEQUENCE NUMBER

   Desc: Identifies the sequence number of the message or package 
within the
         sender interchange.

   Repr: n..6
------------------------------------------------------------------




------------------------------------------------------------------

   0323  TRANSFER POSITION, CODED

   Desc: Indication of the position of a transfer.

   Repr: a1

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0325  DUPLICATE INDICATOR

Desc: Indication that the structure is a duplicate of a 
previously sent structure.

   Repr: a1

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0331  REPORT FUNCTION, CODED

   Desc: Coded value identifying type of status or error report.

   Repr: an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------


Desc: Textual explanation of the reason for the status or error 
report.

   Repr: an..70

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0333  REPORT REASON, CODED

   Desc: Code identifying the reason for the status or error 
report.

   Repr: an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0335  REPORT LANGUAGE, CODED

   Desc: Coded identification of language.

   Repr: an..3

   Note 1: The code list for this data element is maintained by 
ISO (ISO 639).

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0336  TIME OFFSET

   Desc: UTC (Universal Co-ordinated Time) offset from event time.

   Repr: n4

   Note 1: Format is HHMM. Shall be prefixed with '-' for negative 
offsets.
           (ISO 8601)
------------------------------------------------------------------



------------------------------------------------------------------


   0332  REPORT REASON TEXT

   0338  EVENT DATE

   Desc: Date of event.

   Repr: n..8

   Note 1: Format is YYMMDD or CCYYMMDD.

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0340  INTERACTIVE MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

   Desc: Unique interactive message reference assigned by the sender.

   Repr: an..35

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0342  DIALOGUE VERSION NUMBER

   Desc: Version number of a dialogue.

   Repr: an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0344  DIALOGUE RELEASE NUMBER

   Desc: Release number of a dialogue.

   Repr: an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0800  PACKAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

   Desc: Unique package reference number assigned by the sender.

   Repr: an..35 

-----------------------------------------------------------------


   0802  REFERENCE IDENTIFICATION NUMBER

   Desc: Reference number to identify a message, message group and/or
         interchange, which relates to the object.

   Repr: an..35

-----------------------------------------------------------------


   0805  OBJECT TYPE QUALIFIER

   Desc: Qualifier referring to the type of object.

   Repr: an..3

------------------------------------------------------------------


------------------------------------------------------------------


   0332  REPORT REASON TEXT

   0808  OBJECT TYPE ATTRIBUTE

   Desc: The attribute applying to the object type.

   Repr: an..256

-----------------------------------------------------------------

   0809  OBJECT TYPE ATTRIBUTE IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: Coded identification of the attribute applying to the 
object type.

   Repr: an..256

-----------------------------------------------------------------

   0810  LENGTH OF OBJECT IN OCTET BITS

   Desc: Count of the number of octet bits of the object.

   Repr: n..18

   Note 1: The count shall exclude the segment terminator of the 
preceding
           EDIFACT structured segment and the first character 
('U') of the
           following EDIFACT structured segment.
-----------------------------------------------------------------


   0813  REFERENCE QUALIFIER

   Desc: Code giving specific meaning to a reference 
identification number.

   Repr: an..3

-----------------------------------------------------------------


   0814  NUMBER OF SEGMENTS BEFORE OBJECT

   Desc: A count of the number of segments appearing between the 
UNO segment
         and the start of the object.

   Repr: n..3

-----------------------------------------------------------------



Annex D
(informative)

Syntax service code directory


The service code directory forms part the UN Trade Data 
Interchange Directory (UNTDID).  The most recent UNTDID should be 
used to reference the code values for the coded data elements in 
the simple data element directory (see annex C within this part).  
This informative annex contains the service code directory as at 
date of publication.


D.1	Syntax service code directory specification legend:

Name	Name of a simple data element

Desc.	Description of the simple data element

Repr.	Data value representation of the simple data element:

		a	alphabetic characters
		n	numeric characters
		an	alphanumeric characters
		a3	3 alphabetic characters, fixed length
		n3	3 numeric characters, fixed length
		an3	3 alphanumeric characters, fixed length
		a..3	up to 3 alphabetic characters
		n..3	up to 3 numeric characters
		an..3	up to 3 alphanumeric characters


D.2	Index of syntax service code directory simple data elements by 
	tag

	TAG	Name

	0001	Syntax identifier
	0002	Syntax version number
	0007	Identification code qualifier
	0025	Recipient reference/password qualifier
	0029	Processing priority code
	0031	Acknowledgement request
	0035	Test indicator
	0051	Controlling agency, coded
	0052	Message version number
	0054	Message release number
	0065	Message type
	0073	First and last transfer
	0081	Section identification
	0135	Service segment tag, coded
	0323	Transfer position, coded
	0325	Duplicate indicator
	0331	Report function, coded
	0333	Report reason, coded
	0805	Object type qualifier
	0813	Reference qualifier

D.3	Index of syntax service code directory simple data elements by 
	name

	TAG	Name

	0031	Acknowledgement request
	0051	Controlling agency, coded
	0325	Duplicate indicator
	0073	First and last transfer
	0007	Identification code qualifier
	0054	Message release number
	0065	Message type
	0052	Message version number
	0805	Object type qualifier
	0029	Processing priority code
	0025	Recipient reference/password qualifier
	0813	Reference qualifier
	0331	Report function, coded
	0333	Report reason, coded
	0081	Section identification
	0135	Service segment tag, coded
	0001	Syntax identifier
	0002	Syntax version number
	0035	Test indicator
	0323	Transfer position, coded



D.4	Code specifications

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0001  SYNTAX IDENTIFIER

   Desc: Coded identification of the agency controlling the 
	 syntax and of the character repertoire used in an interchange.

   Repr: a4

   UNOA   UN/ECE level A
             As defined in ISO 646 (with the exception of letters,
             lower case a to z).
   UNOB   UN/ECE level B
             As defined in ISO 646.
   UNOC   UN/ECE level C
             As defined in ISO 8859-1 : Information processing -
             Part 1: Latin alphabet No. 1.
   UNOD   UN/ECE level D
             As defined in ISO 8859-2 : Information processing -
             Part 2: Latin alphabet No. 2.
   UNOE   UN/ECE level E
             As defined in ISO 8859-5 : Information processing -
             Part 5: Latin/Cyrillic alphabet.
   UNOF   UN/ECE level F
             As defined in ISO 8859-7 : Information processing -
             Part 7: Latin/Greek alphabet.
   UNOG   UN/ECE level G
             As defined in ISO 8859-3 : Information processing -
             Part 3: Latin alphabet.
   UNOH   UN/ECE level H
             As defined in ISO 8859-4 : Information processing -
             Part 4: Latin alphabet.
   UNOI   UN/ECE level I
             As defined in ISO 8859-6 : Information processing -
             Part 6: Latin/Arabic alphabet.
   UNOJ   UN/ECE level J
             As defined in ISO 8859-8 : Information processing -
             Part 8: Latin/Hebrew alphabet.
   UNOK   UN/ECE level K
             As defined in ISO 8859-9 : Information processing -
             Part 9: Latin alphabet.
   UNOX   UN/ECE level X
             Code extension technique as defined by ISO 2022 
	     utilising the escape techniques in accordance with ISO 2375.
   UNOY   UN/ECE level Y
             ISO 10646-1 octet without code extension technique.

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0002  SYNTAX VERSION NUMBER

   Desc: Version number of the syntax.
 
   Repr: an1

   1      Version 1
             ISO 9735:1988.
   2      Version 2
             ISO 9735:1990.
   3      Version 3
             ISO 9735 Amendment 1:1992.
   4      Version 4
             ISO 9735:YYYY.
------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0007  IDENTIFICATION CODE QUALIFIER

   Desc: Qualifier referring to the identification code.

   Repr: an..4

        1 DUNS (Dun & Bradstreet)
             Self explanatory.
        4 IATA (International Air Transport Association)
             Self explanatory.
        5 INSEE (Institut National de la Statistique et des
          Etudes Economiques) - SIRET
             French national statistics institute. SIRET means 
	     Systeme Informatique du Repertoire des entreprises et de 
  	     leurs ETablissements.
        8 UCC Communications ID (Uniform Code Council 
	      Communications Identifier)
             The Uniform Code Council Communications Identifier is 
	     a ten digit code used to uniquely identify physical and
             logical locations.
        9 DUNS (Dun & Bradstreet) with 4 digit suffix
             Self explanatory.
       12 Telephone number
             Self explanatory.
       14 EAN (European Article Numbering Association)
             Self explanatory.
       18 AIAG (Automotive Industry Action Group)
             Self explanatory.
       22 INSEE (Institut National de la Statistique et des
             Etudes Economiques) - SIREN
             French national statistics institute. SIREN means 
	     Systeme Informatique du Repertoire des ENtreprises (et de 
	     leurs etablissements).
       30 ISO 6523: Organization identification
             Self explanatory.
       31 DIN (Deutsches Institut fuer Normung)
             German standardization institute.
       33 BfA (Bundesversicherungsanstalt fuer Angestellte)
             German social security association.
       34 National Statistical Agency
             Self explanatory.
       51 GEIS (General Electric Information Services)
             Self explanatory.
       52 INS (IBM Network Services)
             Self explanatory.
       54 Bundesverband der Deutschen Baustoffhaendler
             German building material trade association.
       55 Bank identifier code
             Self explanatory.
       57 KTNet (Korea Trade Network Services)
             Self explanatory.
       58 UPU (Universal Postal Union)
             Self explanatory.
       59 ODETTE (Organization for Data Exchange through
          Tele-Transmission in Europe)
             European automotive industry project.
       61 SCAC (Standard Carrier Alpha Code)
             Directory of standard multimodal carriers and tariff
             agent codes. The SCAC lists and codes transportation
             companies.
       63 ECA (Electronic Commerce Australia)
             Australian association for electronic commerce.
       65 TELEBOX 400 (Deutsche Telekom)
             German telecommunications service.
       80 NHS (National Health Service)
             United Kingdom National Health Service.
       82 Statens Teleforvaltning
             Norwegian telecommunications regulatory authority 
	     (NTRA).
       84 Athens Chamber of Commerce
             Greek Chamber of Commerce.
       85 Swiss Chamber of Commerce
             Swiss Chamber of Commerce.
       86 US Council for International Business
             United States Council for International Business.
       87 National Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry
             Belgium National Federation of Chambers of Commerce 
	     and Industry.
       89 Association of British Chambers of Commerce
             Association of British Chambers of Commerce.
       90 SITA (Societe Internationale de Telecommunications
          Aeronautiques)
             SITA (Societe Internationale de Telecommunications
             Aeronautiques).
       91 Assigned by seller or seller's agent
             Self explanatory.
       92 Assigned by buyer or buyer's agent
             Self explanatory.
   ZZZ    Mutually defined
             Self explanatory.
------------------------------------------------------------------


   0025  RECIPIENT REFERENCE/PASSWORD QUALIFIER

   Desc: Qualifier for the recipient's reference or password.

   Repr: an2

   AA     Reference
             Self explanatory.
   BB     Password
             Self explanatory.

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0029  PROCESSING PRIORITY CODE

   Desc: Code determined by the sender requesting processing 
	 priority for the interchange.
   Repr: a1

   A      Highest priority
             Self explanatory.

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0031  ACKNOWLEDGEMENT REQUEST

   Desc: Code requesting acknowledgement for the interchange.

   Repr: n1

        1 Requested
             Acknowledgement is requested.

------------------------------------------------------------------




------------------------------------------------------------------

   0035  TEST INDICATOR

   Desc: Indication that the structural level containing the test
         indicator is a test.

   Repr: n1

        1 General test
             A test transfer.
        2 Syntax only test
             Test only syntax of structure.
        3 Echo request
             To be returned without change, except for this data
             element to have the value 4.
        4 Echo response 
             Returned without change except for this data element
             changing from 3 to 4.

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0051  CONTROLLING AGENCY, CODED

   Desc: Code identifying a controlling agency.

   Repr: an..3

   AA     EDICONSTRUCT
             French construction project.
   AB     DIN (Deutsches Institut fuer Normung)
             German standardization institute.
   AC     ICS (International Chamber of Shipping)
             Self explanatory.
   AD     UPU (Union Postale Universelle)
             Universal Postal Union.
   CC     CCC (Customs Co-operation Council)
             Self explanatory.
   CE     CEFIC (Conseil Europeen des Federations de l'Industrie
          Chimique)
             EDI project for chemical industry.
   EC     EDICON
             UK Construction project.
   ED     EDIFICE (Electronic industries project)
             EDI Forum for companies with Interest in Computing 
	     and Electronics (EDI project for EDP/ADP sector).
   EE     EC + EFTA (European Communities and European Free Trade
          Association)
             Self explanatory.
   EN     EAN (European Article Numbering Association)
             Self explanatory.
   ER     UIC (International Union of railways)
             European railways.
   EU     European Union
             Self explanatory.
   EX     IECC (International Express Carriers Conference)
             Self explanatory.
   IA     IATA (International Air Transport Association)
             Self explanatory.
   KE     KEC (Korea EDIFACT Committee)
             Self explanatory.
   LI     LIMNET
             UK Insurance project.
   OD     ODETTE (Organization for Data Exchange through
          Tele-Transmission in Europe)
             European automotive industry project.
   RI     RINET (Reinsurance and Insurance Network)
             Self explanatory.
   RT     UN/ECE/TRADE/WP.4/GE.1/EDIFACT Rapporteurs' Teams
             Self explanatory.
   UN     UN/ECE/TRADE/WP.4
             United Nations Economic UN Economic Commission for 
	     Europe (UN/ECE), Committee on the development of trade 
	     (TRADE), Working Party on facilitation of international trade
             procedures (WP.4).

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0052  MESSAGE VERSION NUMBER

   Desc: Version number of a message type.

   Repr: an..3

   1      Status 1 version
             Message approved and issued as a status 1 (trial)
             message. (Valid for directories published after March
             1990 and prior to March 1993)
   2      Status 2 version
             Message approved and issued as a status 2 (formal
             recommendation) message. (Valid for directories
             published after March 1990 and prior to March 1993)
   88     1988 version
             Message approved and issued in the 1988 release of 
	     the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data Interchange 
	     Directory) as a status 2 (formal recommendation) message.
   89     1989 version
             Message approved and issued in the 1989 release of 
	     the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data Interchange 
	     Directory) as a status 2 (formal recommendation) message.
   90     1990 version
             Message approved and issued in the 1990 release of 
	     the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data Interchange 
	     Directory) as a status 2 (formal recommendation) message.
   D      Draft version
             Message approved and issued as a draft message. 
	     (Valid for directories published after March 1993)
   S      Standard version
             Message approved and issued as a standard message.
             (Valid for directories published after March 1993)

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0054  MESSAGE RELEASE NUMBER

   Desc: Release number within the current message version number.

   Repr: an..3

   1      First release
             Message approved and issued in the first release of 
	     the year of the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data
             Interchange Directory). (Valid for directories 
	     published prior to March 1990)
   2      Second release
             Message approved and issued in the second release of 
	     the year of the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data Interchange
             Directory) (Valid for directories published prior to
             March 1990).
   902    Trial release 1990
             Message approved and issued in the 1990 status 1
             (trial) release of the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data
             Interchange Directory).
   911    Trial release 1991
             Message approved and issued in the 1991 status 1 (trial)
             release of the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data
             Interchange Directory).
   912    Standard release 1991
             Message approved and issued in the 1991 status 2
             (standard) release of the UNTDID (United Nations Trade
             Data Interchange Directory).
   921    Trial release 1992
             Message approved and issued in the 1992 status 1 (trial)
             release of the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data
             Interchange Directory).
   932    Standard release 1993
             Message approved and issued in the 1993 status 2
             (standard) release of the UNTDID (United Nations Trade
             Data Interchange Directory).
   93A    Release 1993 - A
             Message approved and issued in the 1993 release of the
             UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data Interchange
             Directory).
   94A    Release 1994 - A
             Message approved and issued in the first 1994 release of
             the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data Interchange
             Directory).
   94B    Release 1994 - B
             Message approved and issued in the second 1994 release
             of the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data Interchange
             Directory).
   95A    Release 1995 - A
             Message approved and issued in the first 1995 release of
             the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data Interchange
             Directory).
   95B    Release 1995 - B
             Message approved and issued in the second 1995 release
             of the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data Interchange
             Directory).
   96A    Release 1996 - A
             Message approved and issued in the first 1996 release of
             the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data Interchange
             Directory).
   96B    Release 1996 - B
             Message approved and issued in the second 1996 release
             of the UNTDID (United Nations Trade Data Interchange
             Directory).

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0065  MESSAGE TYPE

   Desc: Code identifying a type of message and assigned by its
         controlling agency.

   Repr: an..6

   APERAK Application error and acknowledgement message
             The function of this message is:
             a)  to inform a message issuer that his message has been
             received by the addressee's application and has been
             rejected due to errors encountered during its processing
             in the application.
             b)  to acknowledge to a message issuer the receipt of his
             message by the addressee's application.


   AUTACK Secure authentication and acknowledgement message
             Message authenticating sent messages, or providing
             secure acknowledgement of received interchanges,
             groups, messages or packages. A secure authentication
             and acknowledgement message can be used to:
             a)  give secure authentication or non-repudiation of
             origin to messages, packages, groups or interchanges.
             b)  give secure acknowledgement or non-repudiation of
             receipt to secured messages, packages, groups or
             interchanges.
   AUTHOR Authorization message
             Message sent by the Ordering Customer (or Payor or Agent
             on behalf of the Ordering Customer) or by a third party
             having authority on the Ordering Customer's payments to
             the Ordered Bank, to authorize the Ordered Bank to
             execute a given financial transaction.
             This financial transaction might relate to both: multiple
             messages like PAYMUL and DIRDEB and single instruction
             messages like PAYORD and PAYEXT.
             An Authorisation Message could also be sent from the
             Ordered Bank to the Ordering Customer or its
             Authorisation Authority to request authorisation for a
             given financial transaction.
   BANSTA Banking status message
             Message sent by the receiver of a previously sent-message
             to report on the status of processing of this original
             message. It indicates, at the application level, the
             acceptance or rejection of the message or the ability for
             the receiver of the message to execute or not the
             instructions received.
   BAPLIE Bayplan/stowage plan occupied and empty locations message
             Message to transmit information about equipment and goods
             on a means of transport, including their location on the
             means of transport. The message can be exchanged between
             (liner's) agents, tonnage centers, stevedores and ships
             masters/operators.
   BAPLTE Bayplan/stowage plan total numbers message
             Message to transmit information about the total numbers
             of equipment and quantity of goods on a means of transport. 
	     The message can be exchanged between (liner's)
             agents, tonnage centers, stevedores and ships
             masters/operators.
   BOPBNK Bank transactions and portfolio transactions report message
             Message sent by banks to the Balance of Payment (BOP)
             compiler for reporting of the banks' own transactions,
             aggregated individual customer transactions and portfolio
             transactions. The message could also be used for
             reporting the assets and liabilities positions of the
             banks.
   BOPCUS Balance of payment customer transaction report message
             Message sent by banks to the Balance of Payment (BOP)
             compiler for reporting - one by one - individual customer
             transactions (debit and credit) processed during a
             specific time period. Actually, this transaction
             information can be distilled - one by one- from PAYORD /
             PAYMUL / PAYEXT and BOPINF messages respectively.
   BOPDIR Direct balance of payment declaration message
             Message sent by non-bank residents to report directly to
             the Balance of Payment (BOP) compiler on: transactions
             via bank accounts held at a resident bank, transactions
             via bank accounts held at a non-resident bank,
             transactions and clearing via accounts with non-bank non-
             residents, foreign assets and liabilities, information
             in the context of a BOP-related survey (stocks and
             flows); for those countries which base their compilation
             of the BOP on surveys.
   BOPINF Balance of payment information from customer message
             Message sent by a payee to its bank on receipt of one
             specified amount as a settlement of a transaction with a
             non-resident. The Balance of Payment (BOP) compiler has
             to be informed of the transaction via the payee's bank.
   CALINF Vessel call information message
             Notice from a liner agent to a stevedore providing
             information concerning the expected arrival of a vessel
             and the expected cargo operations.
   CASINT Request for legal administration action in civil proceedings
             message
             A request for lodgment of data to commence or enforce a
             civil proceeding.
   CASRES Legal administration response in civil proceedings message
             A legal response (CASRES) to a request for lodgement of
             data to commence or enforce a civil proceeding.
   COARRI Container discharge/loading report message
             A message by which the container terminal reports that
             the containers specified have been discharged from a
             seagoing vessel (discharged as ordered, overlanded or
             shortlanded), or have been loaded into a seagoing
             vessel.
   CODECO Container gate-in/gate-out report message
             A message by which a terminal, depot, etc. confirms that
             the containers specified have been delivered or picked up
             by the inland carrier (road, rail or barge). This
             message can also be used to report internal terminal
             container movements (excluding loading and discharging
             the vessel).
   CODENO Permit expiration/clearance ready notice message
             Notice specifying the cargo for which either the validity
             of the permits/Customs documents expires at short notice
             or for which regulatory Customs clearance has taken
             place.
   COEDOR Container stock report message
             A message to report containers that are in stock of the
             sending party (i.e., a terminal, depot or container
             freight station).
   COHAOR Container special handling order message
             Order to perform a specified special handling and/or
             service on containers.
   COMDIS Commercial dispute message
             Message providing notice of commercial dispute against
             one or more invoices is usually raised by the buyer to
             notify the seller that something was found wrong with the
             goods delivered or the services rendered (goods damaged,
             delivery incomplete, delivery late, etc.). The dispute
             must be resolved before the related invoice can be
             settled. The message will be used to: - notify a dispute; -
             correspond about an existing dispute (structured
             information); - notify the settlement of a dispute.
             The message will serve at the same time as the dispute
             notice and as the dispute answer.
   CONAPW Advice on pending works message
             Message to enable a contractor who intends to start works
             to advise public authorities and water, gas, telephone,
             electricity distributors of his intention and to request
             them to send back plans or information under any form
             concerning existing networks.
   CONDPV Direct payment valuation message
             Message of instruction sent by the contractor to the
             party responsible for payments, to pay the subcontractors
             for work completed.
  CONDRA Drawing administration message
             The message will be used for the administration of each
             exchange of a set of engineering/CAD files. It will give
             additional information about the files; for example,
             their nature, a list of their contents and technical
             information necessary to interpret them.
             The whole process of exchanging engineering or CAD
             (Computer Aided Design) files between different parties
             within projects will be supported by EDIFACT messages.
             The message CONDRA is one of these messages.
   CONDRO Drawing organisation message
             The message CONDRO is intended to describe the general
             (project) organisation and structure, valid for a whole
             project or environment.
             The whole process of exchanging engineering or CAD
             (Computer Aided Design) files between different parties
             within one project will be supported by EDIFACT messages.
             The message CONDRO is one of these messages.
   CONEST Establishment of contract message
             Message to formally establish and issue the contractual
             Bill of Quantities (BoQ). This documentation becomes the
             contractual basis for all future work and payment for the
             project.
   CONITT Invitation to tender message
             At the pre-construction stage of a construction project,
             the Client will wish to appoint a contractor to execute
             the works. The first step in this appointment process is
             to issue an invitation to tender (ITT) to contractors
             this will require a commercial offer to be made by the
             contractor to the client.
   CONPVA Payment valuation message
             Message used between a contractor and the client's
             representative, during the process of approving the value
             and payment for work completed for a given period of
             time.
   CONQVA Quantity valuation message
             Message used by a contractor to submit progress details
             to a client or his representative. The message may be
             used also for subsets of the project where work has been
             contracted out to other parties. In these cases the
             exchange would be between the subcontractor and the party
             that subcontracted the work.
   CONRPW Response of pending works message
             Message to reply to a CONAPW message and to enable
             service providers to respond to a contractor giving
             details of any services and networks in the location
             where construction work is to be undertaken.
   CONTEN Tender message
             Message sent by main contractor or subcontractor for the
             purposes of submitting a tender which is a commercial
             offer to execute the project work defined in the bill of
             quantities within the invitation to tender.
   CONTRL Syntax and service report message
             Message syntactically acknowledging or rejecting, with
             error indication, a received interchange, functional
             group or message.
   CONWQD Work item quantity determination message
             Message used between a contractor and the client's
             representative or other partners within the construction
             process, for justifying the work item quantities given in
             messages that describe the work items or their progress
             valuations.
   COPARN Container announcement message
             The message contains an order to release, to make
             available, to accept or to call down containers or to
             announce the impending arrival of containers.
             This message is part of a total set of container-related
             messages. These messages serve to facilitate the
             intermodal handling of containers by streamlining the
             information exchange.
             The business scenario for the container messages is
             clarified in a separate document, called: 'Guide to the
             scenario of EDIFACT container messages'.
             The order may pertain to cargo related containers (full
             container load and less than container load), the
             arrangement of empty containers prior to loading and
             after stripping, as well as the arrangements for leasing
             the empty containers (on-hire and off-hire of
             containers).
   COPINO Container pre-notification message
             A message by which an inland carrier notifies of the
             delivery or pick-up of containers.
   COPRAR Container discharge/loading order message
             A message to order to the container terminal that the
             containers specified have to be discharged from a
             seagoing vessel or have to be loaded into a seagoing
             vessel.
   COREOR Container release order message
             Order to release containers, and giving permission for
             them to be picked up by or on behalf of a specified
             party.
   COSTCO Container stuffing/stripping confirmation message
             Confirmation that specified goods/consignments have been
             stuffed into or stripped from LCL-containers.
   COSTOR Container stuffing/stripping order message
             Order that specified goods/consignments are to be stuffed
             into (already or still to be delivered) or stripped from
             LCL-containers.
   CREADV Credit advice message
             Message sent by the account servicing financial
             institution to the account owner to inform the account
             owner that its account has been or will be credited for a
             specified amount on the date indicated, in settlement of
             the referenced business transaction(s).
   CREEXT Extended credit advice message
             Message sent by the account servicing financial
             institution to the account owner to inform the account
             owner that its account has been or will be credited for a
             specified amount on the date indicated, in settlement of
             the referenced business transaction(s), and to provide to
             the payee full details of the transactions to which the
             extended credit advice relates.
   CREMUL Multiple credit advice message
             A Multiple Credit Advice message is sent by an Account
             Servicing Financial Institution to the Account Owner or
             to a third party, which has agreed bilaterally in
             advance, that its account(s) has been or will be credited
             for specified amount(s) on the date(s) indicated, in
             settlement of the referenced business transaction(s).
   CUSCAR Customs cargo report message
             Message to permit the transfer of data from a carrier to
             a Customs administration for the purpose of meeting
             Customs cargo reporting requirements.
   CUSDEC Customs declaration message
             Message to permit the transfer of data from a declarant
             to a Customs administration for the purpose of meeting
             legislative and/or operational requirements in respect of
             the declaration of goods for import, export or transit.
   CUSEXP Customs express consignment declaration message
             Message to permit the transfer of data from an express
             carrier to a Customs administration for the purpose of
             meeting Customs cargo reporting and/or clearance requirements.
   CUSREP Customs conveyance report message
             Message to permit the transfer of data from a carrier to
             a Customs administration for the purpose of meeting
             Customs reporting requirements in respect of the means of
             transport on which the cargo is carried.
   CUSRES Customs response message
             This Customs Response Message (CUSRES) permits the
             transfer of data from a customs administration:
             - to acknowledge the receipt of the message
             - to indicate whether the information received is correct
             or if there are errors (i.e. accepted without errors,
             accepted with errors, rejected, etc.)
             - to inform the sender of the status of the customs
             declaration (i.e. goods released, goods for examination,
             documents required, etc.)
             - to transmit additional information as agreed between
             parties (i.e. tax information, quantity information,
             etc.)
             - to respond to batched messages (i.e. CUSDEC, CUSCAR,
             CUSREP, CUSEXP).
   DEBADV Debit advice message
             Message sent by the account servicing financial
             institution to the account owner to inform the account
             owner that its account has been or will be debited for a
             specified amount on the date indicated, in settlement of
             the referenced business transaction(s).
   DEBMUL Multiple debit advice message
             A DEBMUL message is sent by an Account Servicing
             Financial Institution to the Account Owner or to a third
             party, which has agreed bilaterally in advance, that its
             account(s) has been or will be debited for specified
             amount(s) on the date(s) indicated, in settlement of the
             referenced business transaction(s).
   DELFOR Delivery schedule message
             DELFOR is a message which is sent from a party who is
             planning the use or consumption of products to a party
             who has to plan for the supply of the products. The
             message gives the requirements regarding details for
             short term delivery and/or medium to long scheduling for
             products. The scheduling can be used to authorize
             manufacturing and or the provision of materials. This is
             based on the terms and conditions defined in a purchase
             order or contract.
   DELJIT Delivery just in time message
             Message providing the ability for a customer to convey
             precise delivery sequence and just-in-time schedule
             requirements to a supplier, and is intended to supplement
             the delivery schedule message (DELFOR).
   DESADV Despatch advice message
             A message specifying details for goods despatched or
             ready for despatch under agreed conditions.
             The United Nations Despatch Advice Message serves both as
             a specification for Delivery Despatch Advice and also as
             a Returns Despatch Advice message.
   DESTIM Equipment damage and repair estimate message
             A message for use by the container repair, shipping and
             leasing industry. It may be used by a container equipment
             repair depot to send an owner or user a description of
             damages to the equipment, as an estimate of the repair
             actions and costs needed to rectify such damages. A
             recipient owner may forward the estimate to a lessee. The
             message may also be used by an owner or lessee as an
             authorization message to the repair depot to perform the
             repairs indicated in the estimate, and as an
             acknowledgment of his willingness to pay for those
             repairs indicated in the estimate for his account.
   DIRDEB Direct debit message
             Message sent by the creditor to the creditor's bank
             instructing it to claim specified amounts from the
             debtor(s) and to credit these amounts to a single account
             it services for the creditor in settlement of the
             referenced transaction(s).
   DIRDEF Directory definition message
             The Directory definition message (DIRDEF) permits the
             transfer of the contents of a UN/EDIFACT Directory set or
             parts thereof.
   DOCADV Documentary credit advice message
             Message to indicate to the beneficiary the terms and
             conditions of a documentary credit that has been
             originated by the issuing bank and received by the
             advising bank (or an intermediary advising bank).
   DOCAMA Advice of an amendment of a documentary credit message
             The Advice of an Amendment of a Documentary Credit
             message is originated by the Advising Bank, or
             Intermediary Advising Bank, and sent to the Beneficiary.
             It is used to inform the Beneficiary of the terms and
             conditions of an amendment to a documentary credit
             requested by the Applicant.
   DOCAMI Documentary credit amendment information message
             The Documentary Credit Amendment Information message is
             used to indicate the terms and conditions of an amended
             documentary credit from the Issuing Bank to the Applicant
             and/or Applicant's Bank.
   DOCAMR Request for an amendment of a documentary credit message
             The Request for an Amendment of a Documentary Credit
             originated by the Applicant, or Applicant's Bank, and
             sent to the Issuing Bank. It is issued to  request the
             Issuing Bank to amend the terms and conditions of an
             issued Documentary Credit or to cancel the Documentary
             Credit.
   DOCAPP Documentary credit application message
             Message from a party requesting the issuance of a
             documentary credit to the party providing such service.
             In this message, the conditions under which the sender of
             the message requires the documentary credit to be issued
             are given.
   DOCARE Response to an amendment of a documentary credit message
             The Response to an Amendment of a Documentary Credit
             originated by the Beneficiary and sent to the parties
             involved in the documentary credit. It is issued to
             advise the acceptance or non acceptance of an amendment.
   DOCINF Documentary credit issuance information message
             Message to indicate the terms and conditions of an issued
             documentary credit from the issuing Bank to the applicant
             and/or the applicant's bank.
   FINCAN Financial cancellation message
             A Financial Cancellation Message is sent by the Ordering
             Customer (or Payor or Agent on behalf of the Ordering
             Customer)or by a third party having authority on the
             Ordering Customer's payments to the Ordered Bank to
             request cancellation of a given financial message or
             transaction.
   FINSTA Financial statement of an account message
             This message can be used to cater for various
             communication functions between financial institutions
             and their customers. The most frequent function is to
             provide a statement of booked items confirming 
entries on
             a customer's account. The message type may contain
             several accounts (quoted in the B-level).
   GENRAL General purpose message
             A message to enable the transmission of textual
             information.
   GESMES Generic statistical message
             The compilation of statistics is a continuous chain
             starting with raw data collection, followed by a number
             of harmonization and aggregation processes leading to
             aggregated statistical data.
             Raw data collection is realized by means of surveys,
             sampling, direct reporting from individuals, economic
             operators. Harmonization and aggregation processes are
             very often handled by statistical bodies or authorized
             economic operators in case of direct reporting.
             A Generic Statistical Message (GESMES) is used by an
             organisation involved in this elaboration process to
             transmit a statistical data set.
             It permits the transmission of the following, either in
             the same and/or different messages:
             -the statistical concepts comprising the data set and
             their structure
             -if required, all related information ( code sets,
             labels, methodological notes, footnotes, etc.),
             -the statistical figures of the data set.
             This message could be used by producers and users of
             statistical information such as: National Statistical
             Offices, ministries, private and public administrations,
             private companies etc.
   HANMOV Cargo/goods handling and movement message
             Message from a party to a warehouse/distribution centre
             identifying the handling services and where required the
             movement of specified goods, limited to warehouses within
             the jurisdiction of the distribution centre.
   IFCSUM Forwarding and consolidation summary message
             Message used for consolidation purposes from a party
             arranging forwarding and transport services to the party
             for which the transport of the consolidated cargo is
             destined. The message can be used to exchange information
             concerning the consolidated cargo between forwarders,
             carriers and agents enabling those parties to handle the
             consignments included in the consolidation. In addition
             it can be used for a collection of consignments
             originating from one shipper for forwarding and transport
             services.
   IFTCCA Forwarding and transport shipment charge calculation message
             Message to request the calculation of the transport
             charges of a specific shipment and to answer to such a
             request.
   IFTDGN Dangerous goods notification message
             Message from the party responsible to declare the
             dangerous goods (e.g. carrier's agent, freight
             forwarder) to the party acting on behalf of the local
             authority performing the checks on conformance with the
             legal requirements on the control of dangerous goods,
             normally Port Authority, conveying the information
             relating to one conveyance/voyage of a means of transport
             such as a vessel, train, truck or barge, on the dangerous
             goods being loaded, unloaded, and/or in transit.
   IFTFCC International transport freight costs and other charges
          message
	     A message specifying freight, handling and transport
             costs and other related charges between transport service
             providers and their customers.
   IFTIAG Dangerous cargo list message
             The International Forwarding and Transport Dangerous
             Cargo List Message is a message:
             - from the party acting on behalf of the carrier for the
             gathering of the dangerous goods information of the cargo
             in a certain port or place of call or loading,
             - to the party acting on behalf of the carrier in the
             next port or place of call or discharge,
             conveying the information relating to one conveyance or
             voyage of a means of transport such as a vessel, train,
             truck or barge, on the dangerous goods being carried on
             board - irrespective of the operations that will take
             place in the next port of call.
             This message provides the basic information by which the
             message recipient can notify to the local authorities
             about the loading, unloading and transit-related
             operations, by means of the International forwarding and
             transport dangerous goods notification message (IFTDGN).
   IFTMAN Arrival notice message
             Message from the party providing forwarding and/or
             transport services to the party such as has been
             indicated in the contract, giving notice and details of
             the arrival of the consignment.
   IFTMBC Booking confirmation message
             Message from the party providing forwarding and/or
             transport services to the party booking those services
             giving the confirmation information to the booking of the
             consignment concerned. A confirmation might read that the
             booking of a consignment is accepted, pending, conditionally 
	     accepted or rejected. The conditions under
             which requested services take place may be given in this
             message.
   IFTMBF Firm booking message
             Message from a party definitely booking forwarding
             and/or transport services for a consignment to the party
             providing those services. The message will contain the
             conditions under which the sender of the messages
             requires the services to take place.
   IFTMBP Provisional booking message
             Message from a party requesting space and/or giving brief
             details of a planned consignment for forwarding and/or
             transport services to the party providing those services.
             In this message, the conditions under which the planned
             transport should take place can be given.
   IFTMCS Instruction contract status message
             Message from the party providing the transport/forwarding
             services to the party that issued the instructions for
             those services stating the actual details, terms and
             conditions (charges when applicable) of the service and
             of the consignment involved. In addition it can be used
             for the exchange of contract information between carriers
             mutually.
   IFTMIN Instruction message
             Message from the party issuing an instruction regarding
             forwarding/transport services for a consignment under
             conditions agreed, to the party arranging the forwarding
             and/or transport services.
   IFTRIN Forwarding and transport rate information message
             Message to request transport rate information and to
             answer to such a message.
   IFTSAI Forwarding and transport schedule and availability
          information message
             Message to request transport schedule or availability
             information and to answer such a request.
   IFTSTA International multimodal status report message
             Message to report the transport status and/or a change in
             the transport status (i.e. event) between agreed parties.
   IFTSTQ International multimodal status request message
             Message to request an international multimodal status
             report message (IFTSTA) in order to provide details
             relating to transport status and/or a change in the
             transport status between agreed parties.
   INSPRE Insurance premium message
             Message used by communicating parties to notify the
             recipient about premiums due from a client. All
             information needed to produce a detailed request for
             payment can be sent.
   INVOIC Invoice message
             Message claiming payment for goods or services supplied
             under conditions agreed between the seller and the buyer.
             The UNSM invoice message, with correct data
             qualification, serves also as the specification for debit
             note and credit note messages.
   INVRPT Inventory report message
             Message specifying information relating to held
             inventories. The inventory report message is intended to
             be used in either direction between trading partners.
   ITRRPT In transit report detail message
             A message specifying to a delivery party, the details of
             goods within grouped consignments despatched by the
             delivering party. This message is used in a multi-step
             transportation process involving only consignors,
             grouping centres and consignees.
             A grouping centre (consolidation point) is a logistic
             point where goods are moved from one means of transport
             to another, to optimize transport cost. This message is
             not to be used to identify additional services related to
             the despatched goods (warehousing, packaging, etc.) which
             may provided by the third party at the same location
             along with the Grouping service.
   JAPRES Job application result message
             Message specifying decisions of an employer related to
             job applications and interviews and employment or
             rejections and, when necessary, reasons for the decisions
             or rejections. The message is transmitted from an
             employer or employment agency to an employment agency.
   JINFDE Job information demand message
             Message sent by a governmental agency to an employer in
             response to a work grant request. This message asks for
             specific additional information (e.g. visa) for further
             processing of the work grant request.
   JOBAPP Job application proposal message
             Message specifying detailed information of proposals for
             one or more job applicants from an employment agency to
             an employer. The detailed information is related to
             profession, occupation, age, education, experiences,
             salaries, other benefits, requested location of the job,
             work and contract conditions.
   JOBCON Job order confirmation message
             The message intent is to confirm the receipt of
             information of a Job Order Message related to a vacancy
             or vacancies. The message is transmitted from an
             employment agency to an employer. The information is
             related to age, sex, profession, salaries, experiences,
             education, work and contract conditions.
   JOBMOD Job order modification message
             A message specifying modifications of a previously sent
             Job Order Message of one or more offered jobs or
             vacancies in an enterprise or organization. The Job Order
             Modification Message is transmitted from an employer or
             employment agency to an employment office. The
             information and the changes detailed in the message are
             related to profession, experiences, salaries, education,
             work and contract conditions.
   JOBOFF Job order message
             A message specifying details for one or more vacancies
             (occupation, salaries, experiences, work and contract
             conditions) for an employer to the employment agency.
   MEDPID Person identification message
             The message is used to pass detailed information on
             persons from, for instance, health insurance agencies to
             local government in order to verify, add, change or
             delete person related data in information systems. The
             message may also be used to transfer person information
             between various application systems within one
             organisation (i.e hospital).
   MEDREQ Medical service request message
             A Medical Service Request message is sent from a service
             requester to the service provider to order investigations, 
	     to modify a previous order or ordered investigation or to 
	     cancel a previous order.
   MEDRPT Medical service report message
             A Medical Service Report message is sent from a service
             provider to the service requester to report new results
             on performed investigations, to modify a previous result
             item or a complete result report or to cancel a previous
             result report.
   MOVINS Stowage instruction message
             Message containing details of one means of transport
             vehicle, giving instructions regarding the loading,
             discharging and restowage of equipment and/or cargoes and
             the location on the means of transport where the
             operation must take place.
   ORDCHG Purchase order change request message
             Message from the buyer to the seller, specifying details
             of the buyer's request to change a purchase order.
   ORDERS Purchase order message
             Message specifying details for goods or services ordered
             under conditions agreed between the seller and the buyer.
   ORDRSP Purchase order response message
             Message from the seller to the buyer, responding to a
             purchase order message or a purchase order change
             request message.
   PARTIN Party information message
             Message to enable the transmission of basic information
             regarding locations and the related operational,
             administrative, financial, manufacturing and trading
             data.
   PAXLST Passenger list message
             Message to permit the transfer of passenger/crew data
             (where national privacy legislation permits and with
             agreement of all parties involved) from a customs,
             immigration or other designated authority in the country
             of departure to the appropriate authorities in the
             country of arrival of the means of transport.
   PAYDUC Payroll deductions advice message
             Message sent by a party to a service providing
             organisation, to detail payments by payroll deductions,
             on behalf of employees, made to the service providing
             organisation.
   PAYEXT Extended payment order message
             Message sent by the ordering customer (or payor or agent
             on behalf of the ordering customer) to the ordered bank,
             to instruct the ordered bank to debit an account it
             services for the ordering customer, and to arrange for
             the payment of a specified amount to the beneficiary (or
             payee or agent in favour of beneficiary) in settlement of
             the referenced business transaction(s), and to provide to
             the payee full details of the transactions to which the
             extended payment order relates.
   PAYMUL Multiple payment order message
             Message sent by the ordering customer (or payor or agent
             on behalf of the ordering customer) to the ordered bank,
             to instruct the ordered bank to debit an account it
             services for the ordering customer, and to arrange for
             the payment of specified amounts to several beneficiaries
             (or payees) in settlement of the referenced business
             transaction(s).
   PAYORD Payment order message
             Message sent by the ordering customer (or payor or agent
             on behalf of the ordering customer) to the ordered bank,
             to instruct the ordered bank to debit an account it services 
	     for the ordering customer, and to arrange for
             the payment of a specified amount to the beneficiary (or
             payee or agent in favour of beneficiary) in settlement
             of the referenced business transaction(s).
   PRICAT Price/sales catalogue message
             Message to enable the transmission of information
             regarding pricing and catalogue details for goods and
             services offered by a seller to a buyer.
   PRODAT Product data message
             A message to submit master data - a set of data that is
             rarely changed - to identify and describe products a
             supplier offers to his (potential) customer or buyer.
             This information of long validity includes technical and
             functional product description but not commercial terms
             and conditions. This message can be used as well to
             update the information on a previously sent PRODAT
             message.
   PRODEX Product exchange reconciliation message
             Message used as a communication between two trading
             partners with agreements for the loan of products to each
             other, to provide information about movements of products
             from and to various locations on particular dates.
   PRPAID Insurance premium payment message
             Message used by communicating parties to notify the
             recipient about premiums to be collected, paid, not paid
             or partly paid, either individually or in series via
             bordereaux or statements.
   QALITY Quality data message
             Message to enable the transmission of the results of
             tests performed to satisfy a specified product or process
             requirement. The content includes, but it is not limited
             to, test data and measurements, statistical information,
             and the testing methods employed.
   QUOTES Quote message
             Message which provides potential sellers with the ability
             to provide price, delivery schedule, and other conditions
             for potential sales of goods or services.
   RDRMES Raw data reporting message
             A Raw data reporting message (RDRMES) is sent in response
             to predefined and identified questions. Raw data are
             collected by numerous offices in the public and private
             sectors. Much of the data is predefined and repetitious.
             The data are often codified such that their description
             has been pre-set and meets the criteria of the collector.
   REBORD Reinsurance bordereau message
             A reinsurance bordereau message is made of individual
             policy data and their impact on a reinsurance contract.
             More specifically, the REBORD can be used to report how
             the reinsurance premiums or claims figures are built up,
             or to report individual cessions affecting a reinsurance
             contract.
   RECADV Receiving advice message
             This message is to address the business needs related to
             the goods receipt. This message is used to report the
             physical receipt of goods. The message allows for the
             reporting of discrepancies in products, quantities,
             terms, packages, etc.
   RECALC Reinsurance calculation message
             RECALC is a generic message used in reinsurance
             environment to show various types of calculation that are
             either based on the loss ratio or on the technical result
             of a reinsurance contract or program, mainly in the area
             of commissions and commission adjustments and in stop
             loss claims. This message supports results shown in the
             RETACC message.
   RECECO Credit risk cover message
             Message to apply for preliminary credit assessment (used
             during negotiation with prospective clients); apply for
             credit protection; reply to credit requests; revise
             amount and expiry date of credit protection and terms;
             cancel credit protection. The message will serve at the
             same time as the request for credit risk cover and as the
             answer (approval or rejection to that request).
   RECLAM Reinsurance claims message
             A reinsurance claims message is exchanged between
             insurers, professional intermediaries, reinsurers to send
             information concerning a loss and/or to request
             settlement (payment or refund) concerning the loss.
   REMADV Remittance advice message
             Message which provides a detailed accounting relative to
             a payment, or other form of financial settlement, on a
             specified date for the provision of goods and/or services
             as detailed in the advice.
   REPREM Reinsurance premium message
             The Reinsurance Premium Message (REPREM) allows to
             support the technical entries for any premium or
             brokerage adjustment amount. For this purpose, it enables
             to render all the relevant data (mainly amounts and the
             way they are built up) used in the actual calculation of
             the adjustment, as well as the other relevant elements
             used in the specific formula.
   REQDOC Request for document message
             Message to enable a party to request the sending, or re-
             sending, of data, either as a document or message, or in
             some other agreed form.
   REQOTE Request for quote message
             Message which provides potential buyers with the ability
             to solicit price, delivery schedule, and other conditions
             from potential sellers of goods or services.
   RESETT Reinsurance settlement message
             A reinsurance settlement message is exchanged by
             insurers, reinsurers, bureaux, brokers and professional
             reinsurance intermediaries to send all information that
             enables to identify, reconcile and set-off technical
             accounts.
   RESMSG Reservation message
             A Reservation message is sent by a tourism operator to
             one or more service providers in order to request desired
             services. These services may be subject to confirmation
             by any of the parties concerned.
   RESREQ Reservation request - interactive message
             An interactive Travel, Tourism and Leisure Reservations
             Request is sent by a customer or his agent, to a service
             provider to reserve, modify or cancel a Travel, Tourism
             and Leisure service. The Travel, Tourism and Leisure
             Reservation Response - Interactive message (RESRSP) is
             utilised to provide an interactive response to the
             interactive service request.
   RESRSP Reservation response - interactive message
             An interactive Travel, Tourism and Leisure Reservations
             Response is sent by a customer or his agent, to convey
             the results of a reservations request for a Travel,
             Tourism and Leisure service. The Travel, Tourism and
             Leisure Reservation Request - Interactive message
             (RESREQ) is utilised to provide the interactive request
             to which the RESRSP is used to respond.
   RETACC Reinsurance technical account message
             The RETACC is used by the sender to report to the
             receiver the latter's position in the sender's books with
             respect to one single reinsurance contract. It is in this
             sense a type of account for services rendered, and may
             initiate a payment flow either directly or via a
             periodical overview statement.
   SAFHAZ Safety and hazard data message
             The Safety and hazard data message is to enable the
             communication of safety data and advice on relevant
             materials supplied to industrial customers so as to
             enable them to take measures to protect their employees
             and the environment from any potential harmful effects
             from these materials.
   SANCRT International movement of goods governmental regulatory
          message
             The SANCRT message permits a commercial operator to apply
             to a national agency for the issue of a certificate,
             permit, authorization etc. in respect of products to be
             imported or exported. It further permits the issuing
             authority to transmit to the applicant and to the
             exporting or importing country's relevant national
             authority, (e.g. Customs, Agriculture etc.) the details
             of the certificate, permit or authorization in respect of
             those products thus facilitating the import/export
             clearance of the consignment whilst ensuring that all
             certificate, permit, authorization requirements are met.
   SLSFCT Sales forecast message
             Message to enable the transmission of forecast data
             related to products or services, such as corresponding
             location, period, product identification, pricing,
             monetary amount, quantity, market sector information,
             sales parties. It enables the recipient to process the
             information automatically and use it for production,
             planning, marketing, statistical purposes, etc.
   SLSRPT Sales data report message
             Message to enable the transmission of sales data related
             to products or services, such as corresponding location,
             period, product identification, pricing, monetary amount,
             quantity, market sector information, sales parties. It
             enables the recipient to process the information
             automatically and use it for production, planning,
             marketing, statistical purposes, etc.
   SSIMOD Modification of identity details message
             The SSIMOD message is sent to communicate to the country
             of first registration the modification of identity
             details which took place since the last transmission
             related to the worker.
   SSRECH Worker's insurance history message
             The SSRECH message is sent by a designated body in one
             State to the equivalent body in another State giving
             details of a worker's Social Security insurance history
             as requested by the latter State.
   SSREGW Notification of registration of a worker message
             The SSREGW message is exchanged between designated bodies
             to enable interchange and registration of a worker's
             social security number. The message is also exchanged by
             designated bodies to request and compile details of
             worker's social security insurance record.
   STATAC Statement of account message
             Message from a seller or his agent to a buyer or his
             agent, providing information about the status of the
             account at a specific point in time. It is used as an aid
             to reconciliation. At the same time it may be a reminder
             of payment due.
   SUPCOT Superannuation contributions advice message
             Message sent by a party to an organisation administering
             a superannuation scheme, to detail contribution payments
             made for members of the superannuation scheme.
   SUPMAN Superannuation maintenance message
             Message sent by a party to an organisation administering
             a superannuation scheme, to specify membership
             maintenance information about superannuation scheme
             members.
   SUPRES Supplier response message
             A Reservation message is sent by a tourism operator to
             one or more service providers in order to request desired
             services. These services may be subject to confirmation
             by any of the parties concerned. The Supplier response
             presented herein is the response to the Reservation
             message (RESMSG).
   TANSTA Tank status report message
             A message from a vessel to the shipplanning department of
             a shipping line and vice versa (e.g. via satellite),
             giving details about the contents of ballast tanks, fuel
             tanks, water tanks and other figures necessary for the
             calculation of the stability of the vessel.
   VATDEC Value added tax message
             This VAT Declaration Message (VATDEC) permits the
             transfer of data from a declarant to a national VAT
             collecting authority for the purpose of meeting
             legislative and/or operational requirements in respect of
             the declarations of VAT.
             The declarant may be a taxpayer who is obliged to send
             VAT returns the authorities, or an accountant or others
             who on behalf of one several taxpayers send VAT returns
             to the authorities and who is mandated to do so by the
             authorities and the taxpayer.
             The declaration may contain one or several returns.
             The message may also be used, for example:
             - within the European Union, to transmit VAT summary
             information for the Value Added Tax Information Exchange
             System (VIES) from a declarant to the relevant national
             VIES collecting authorities.
             - to transmit other related or comparable VAT information
             from a declarant to the relevant authorities.
   VESDEP Vessel departure message
             A message from a stevedore to a liner agent or from a
             liner agent to a local authority (e.g. port authority) to
             inform the latter party of the departure of a vessel and
             giving information on the actual container or cargo operations.
   WKGRDC Work grant decision message
             Message specifying details of decisions of the
             governmental agency to an employer relating to a work
             grant request or permit for one or more workers.
   WKGRRE Work grant request message
             Message specifying details of requests to a governmental
             authority from an employer for workers who need a
             work grant or permit.

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0073  FIRST AND LAST TRANSFER

   Desc: Indication used for the first and last message in a sequence of
         messages related to the same topic.

   Repr: a1

   C      Creation
             First transmission of a number of transfers of the same
             message.

   F      Final
             Last transmission of a number of transfers of the same
             message.

------------------------------------------------------------------




------------------------------------------------------------------

   0081  SECTION IDENTIFICATION

   Desc: To identify the separation of sections of a message.

   Repr: a1

   D      Header/detail section separation
             To qualify the segment UNS, when separating the header
             from the detail section of a message.
   S      Detail/summary section separation
             To qualify the segment UNS, when separating the detail
             from the summary section of a message.

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0135 SERVICE SEGMENT TAG, CODED

   Desc: Code identifying a service segment.

   Repr: an..3

   UIB    Interactive interchange header
             To head and identify an interchange.
   UIH    Interactive message header
             To head, identify and specify a message.
   UIR    Interactive status
             To report the status of the dialogue.
   UIT    Interactive message trailer
             To end and check the completeness of a message.
   UIZ    Interactive interchange trailer
             To end and check the completeness of an interchange.
   UNB    Interchange header
             To identify an interchange.
   UNE    Group trailer
             To end and check the completeness of a group
   UNG    Group header
             To head, identify and specify a group of messages and/or
             packages, which may be used for internal routing and
             which may contain one or more message types and/or
             packages.
   UNH    Message header
             To head, identify and specify a message.
   UNO    Object header
             To head, identify and specify an object.
   UNP    Object trailer
             To end and check the completeness of an object.
   UNS    Section control
             To separate header, detail and summary sections of a
             message.
   UNT    Message trailer
             To end and check the completeness of a message.
   UNZ    Interchange trailer
             To end and check the completeness of an interchange.

------------------------------------------------------------------




------------------------------------------------------------------

   0323  TRANSFER POSITION, CODED

   Desc: Indication of the position of a transfer.

   Repr: a1

   F      First message
             First message in sequence. Can only appear once at the
             start of the sequence.
   I      Intermediate
             Intermediate message in sequence. May appear zero or more
             times within the sequence.
   L      Last message
             Last message in sequence. Can appear only once at the end
             the sequence.

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0325  DUPLICATE INDICATOR

   Desc: Indication that the structure is a duplicate of a previously
         sent structure.

   Repr: a1

   D      Duplicate
             A Duplicate transfer.

------------------------------------------------------------------


   0331  REPORT FUNCTION, CODED

   Desc: Coded value identifying type of status or error report.

   Repr: an..3

        1 Information
             Non Error information, e.g. acknowledgement that party is
             still operational.
        2 Warning
             Warning, e.g. resources getting low.
        3 Non-fatal error
             Non-fatal error detected by party sending the UIR.
             Dialogue integrity may be compromised.
        4 Fatal
             Established dialogue cannot continue.
        5 Query status
             Request for a status report from other party. Should be
             answered with a 'Status report' (see code value '6'
             below).
        6 Status report
             Reporting status of dialogue as perceived by sending
             party.
        7 Pause Dialogue
             Advise other party to stop transferring data within this
             dialogue until a 'Continue dialogue' is received.
        8 Continue Dialogue
             Advise that data flow may continue after being 'Paused'
             (see code value '7' above).
        9 Dialogue reject
             Dialogue cannot be initiated.

------------------------------------------------------------------




------------------------------------------------------------------

   0333  REPORT REASON, CODED

   Desc: Code identifying the reason for the status or error report.

   Repr: an..3

        1 OK response
             No further information.
        2 Syntax error
             Error detected in syntax.
        3 Invalid header
             Invalid header segment received.
        4 Invalid trailer segment
             Invalid trailer segment received.
        5 Unsupported syntax
             Syntax version/release not supported.
        6 Unsupported scenario type
             Scenario type not supported.
        7 Unsupported scenario version
             Scenario version/release not supported.
        8 Unsupported dialogue type
             Dialogue type not supported for this scenario.
        9 Unsupported dialogue version
             Dialogue type version/release not supported.
       10 Unauthorised sender
             Sender not authorised.
       11 Sender rejected
             Sender rejected for administrative reasons.
       12 Multiple transactions unsupported
             Multiple parallel transactions not supported.
       13 Multiple dialogues unsupported
             Multiple parallel dialogues not supported.
       14 Resources unavailable
             Resources unavailable for requested function.
       15 Unknown transaction
             Referenced transaction does not exist.
       16 Unknown dialogue
             Referenced dialogue does not exist.
       17 Invalid function
             Function invalid for current dialogue state.
       18 Service unavailable
             Requested service is unavailable.
       19 Application unavailable
             Requested application not available.
       20 Time-out
             Response not received within expected time.

------------------------------------------------------------------




------------------------------------------------------------------

   0805  OBJECT TYPE QUALIFIER

   Desc: Qualifier referring to the type of object.

   Repr: an..3

        1 Computer environment type
             Specification of the type of computer environment for
             which the object is intended.
        2 Computer environment version
             Specification of the version of the computer environment
             for which the object is intended.
        3 Computer environment release
             Specification of the release of the computer environment
             for which the object is intended.
        5 Computer environment name
             Specification of the name of the computer environment
             for which the object is intended.
        6 Non-EDIFACT security level code
             Specification of the level such as interchange, group or
             message at which non-EDIFACT security is applied to the
             data constituting the object.
        7 Non-EDIFACT security version
             Specification of the version of the non-EDIFACT security
             technique applied to the data constituting the object.
        8 Non-EDIFACT security release
             Specification of the release of the non-EDIFACT security
             technique applied to the data constituting the object.
        9 Non-EDIFACT security technique
             Specification of the non-EDIFACT security technique
             applied to the data constituting the object.
       10 Non-EDIFACT security free text information
             Free form description of the non-EDIFACT security
             technique applied to the data constituting the object.
       11 File identification by number
             Identification number assigned to the file constituting
             the object.
       12 File identification by name
             Name assigned to the file constituting the object.
       13 File format
             Specification of the format of the file constituting the
             object.
       14 File version
             Specification of the version of the file constituting the
             object.
       15 File release
             Specification of the release of the file constituting the
             object.
       16 File status
             Specification of the status of the file constituting the
             object.
       17 File size
             Specification of the size of the file constituting the
             object in bytes.
       18 File description
             Free form description of the file constituting the object.
       19 File block type
             Specification of the type of blocking used to partition
             the file constituting the object.
       20 File block length
             Specification of the length of the blocks used to
             partition the file constituting the object.
       21 File record length
             Specification of the length of the records contained in
             the file constituting the object expressed as the
             number of character positions.
       22 Program identification by number
             Identification number assigned to the program
             constituting the object.
       23 Program identification by name
             Name assigned to the program constituting the object.
       24 Program type
             Specification of the type of program constituting the
             object.
       25 Program version
             Specification of the version of the program constituting
             the object.
       26 Program release
             Specification of the release of the program constituting
             the object.
       27 Program status
             Specification of the status of the program constituting
             the object.
       28 Program description
             Free form description of the program constituting the
             object.
       29 Program size
             Specification of the size of the program constituting the
             object in bytes.
       30 Interchange format
             Specification of the format of the interchange
             constituting the object.
       31 Interchange version
             Specification of the version of the interchange
             constituting the object.
       32 Interchange release
             Specification of the release of the interchange
             constituting the object.
       33 Interchange status
             Specification of the status of the interchange
             constituting the object.
       34 Interchange identification
             Identification number assigned to the interchange
             constituting the object.
       35 Compression technique identification
             An identification assigned to the compression technique
             applied to the object.
       36 Compression technique version
             Specification of the version of the compression
             technique applied to the object.
       37 Compression technique release
             Specification of the release of the compression
             technique applied to the object.
       38 Drawing identification by name
             Name assigned to the drawing constituting the object.
       39 Drawing identification by number
             Identification number assigned to the drawing
             constituting the object.
       40 Drawing type
             Specification of the type of drawing constituting the
             object.
       41 Drawing format
             Specification of the format of the drawing constituting
             the object.
       42 Drawing version
             Specification of the version of the drawing constituting
             the object.
       43 Drawing release
             Specification of the release of the drawing constituting
             the object.
       44 Drawing status
             Specification of the status of the drawing constituting
             the object.
       45 Drawing size
             Specification of the size of the drawing constituting
             the object in bytes.
       46 Drawing description
             Free form description of the drawing constituting the
             object.
       48 Filter type
             Specification of the type of filtering technique applied
             to the object.
       49 Filter version
             Specification of the version of the filtering technique
             applied to the object.
       50 Filter code page
             Specification of the code page used for the filtering
             technique applied to the object.
       51 Filter technique
             Specification of the filtering technique applied to the
             object.
       52 Character set repertoire identification
             Identification of the character set repertoire used for
             the object.
       53 Character set encoding technique
             Specification of the character set encoding technique
             used for the object.
       54 Character set encoding technique code page
             Specification of the code page used for the character
             set encoding technique used for the object.
       55 Certificate type
             Specification of the type of certificate constituting
             the object.
       56 Certificate version
             Specification of the version of the certificate
             constituting the object.
       57 Certificate release
             Specification of the release of the certificate
             constituting the object.
       58 Certificate status
             Specification of the status of the certificate
             constituting the object.
       60 Certificate identification by name
             Name assigned to the certificate constituting the object.
       61 Certificate identification by number
             Identification number assigned to the certificate
             constituting the object.
       62 Certificate format
             Specification of the format of the certificate
             constituting the object.
       63 Certificate code page
             Specification of the code page used when generating the
             certificate constituting the object.

------------------------------------------------------------------




------------------------------------------------------------------

   0813  REFERENCE QUALIFIER

   Desc: Code giving specific meaning to a reference identification
         number.

   Repr: an..3

        1 Object identification number
            Identification number assigned to an object.
        2 Application message reference number
            Reference number assigned to a message by a computer
            application.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Annex E
(informative)

Order of segments and groups of segments within a message


E.1	General

Segments used in a message appear in the sequence (top to bottom) 
specified in the message segment table.

In the message segment table, segments are indicated by their 
tags.  The requirement for their inclusion in the message i.e. 
their status, is indicated by the letter M for mandatory or C for 
conditional.  The number of times a segment may occur in each 
instance is indicated directly thereafter.  This may be followed 
by any associated dependency note identifier(s).

In the message segment table, segment groups are indicated by 
their segment group number.  The requirement for their inclusion 
in the message i.e. their status, is indicated by the letter M for 
mandatory or C for conditional.  The number of times a segment 
group may occur in each instance is indicated directly thereafter.  
This may be followed by any associated dependency note 
identifier(s).


E.2	Segment groups

Two or more segments can be grouped, as shown in figure 1.  The 
trigger segment of each segment group appears in the message 
segment table immediately following the segment group 
identification (i.e. segment group 1, 2 etc.).  All other segments 
within the segment group follow in sequence, with the last segment 
in the group identified by the boundary lines specifying the 
extent of the segment group.

A segment group can contain another dependent segment group or 
groups (e.g. segment group 2 contains a dependent segment group 3 
in the figure), and, as can be seen in the figure, a segment can 
terminate two (or more) segment groups, as indicated by the 
segment group boundary lines (segment LLL in the figure.)

In the figure, segment group 2 is the parent of segment group 3, 
and segment group 3 is the parent of segment group 4.



E.2.1	Figure 1


------------------------------------------------------------------

POS    TAG    Name                                   S   R             
Notes

0010   Uxx    Message header                         M   1
0020   AAA    Segment AAA name                       M   1
0030   BBB    Segment BBB name                       C   9
0040   CCC    Segment CCC name                       C   9
0050   ---------- Segment group 1 ------------------ C   999  ----
---+
0060   DDD    Segment DDD name                       M   1           
|
0070   EEE    Segment EEE name                       C   9           
|
0080   FFF    Segment FFF name                       C   9           
|
0090   GGG    Segment GGG name                       C   1    ----
---+
0100   ---------- Segment group 2 ------------------ C   9    ----
---+
0110   HHH    Segment HHH name                       M   1           
|
                                                                     
|
0120   ---------- Segment group 3 ------------------ C   9    ----
--++
0130   III    Segment III name                       M   1          
||
0140   JJJ    Segment JJJ name                       C   9          
||
                                                                    
||
0150   ---------- Segment group 4 ------------------ C   9    ----
-+||
0160   KKK    Segment KKK name                       M   1         
|||
0170   LLL    Segment LLL name                       C   9    ----
-+++
  .
  .
  .
  .
nnnn   Uxx    Message trailer                        M   1

------------------------------------------------------------------


Figure 1 - Example message segment table


Legend

POS		The sequential position number of the segment or segment group in the message
		(in steps of 10 to permit later amendment to message structures)

TAG 		The tag of the segment in the message

Name		The name of the segment in the message

S		The status (of the segment or segment group) i.e. M = Mandatory, C = Conditional

R		The maximum number of occurrences of the segment or segment group

Notes		The note number




E.2.2	Figure 1 Notes

1.	An example of the processing/sequencing order of the segments 
(using the segment tags only) is as follows (with segment group 
1 appearing twice, the other groups once, and with repeating 
segments shown as appearing once only):

Uxx,AAA,BBB,CCC,DDD,EEE,FFF,GGG,DDD,EEE,FFF,GGG,HHH,III,JJJ,KKK
,LLL,...Uxx

2.	In the segment table and in the segment string shown above, the 
first "Uxx  Message Header" would be "UNH" for batch EDI, and 
"UIH" for interactive EDI;  the second "Uxx  Message trailer" 
would be "UNT" for batch EDI and "UIT" for interactive EDI.

                                  ____________________


